[Page 1]
• 
JI~ 
a;1t1m INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
irJai DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF INDIA 
Ref.: IRDA/F&A/GDL/CMP/059/03/2017 Date: 20th March, 2017 
Guidelines on Stewardship Code for Insurers in India 
To, 
CEOs/ CMDs of All Insurers 
The Authority had revised the Corporate Governance guidelines for insurance companies in 2016, 
which combined t_he stipulations regarding the form and composition of the Board, the 
Appointment and qualifications of Directors and Key Management Persons (KMPs), appointment 
of Auditors, etc. While the Corporate Governance Guidelines issued by the Authority primarily 
dwell upon the governance at insurance companies, the state of governance at the companies 
where the insurance companies have invested, is also important. 
Insurance companies are significant institutional investors in listed companies and the 
investments are held by them as custodians of policyholders. Therefore, it is felt that insurance 
companies should play an active role in the general meetings of investee companies and engage 
with the managements at a greater level to improve their governance. This will result in informed 
decisions by the parties and ultimately improve the return on investments of insurers. 
Therefore, the Authority has decided to implement a code for stewardship for the insurers. The 
code is in the form of a set of principles, which the insurers would need to adopt. The principles 
are being uniformly adopted for institutional investors, like Mutual Funds, Pension Funds, Foreign 
Portfolio Investors (FPis), Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs), etc. The code broadly requires 
the insurers to have a policy as regards their conduct at general meetings of the investee 
companies and the disclosures relating thereto. It shall be applicable from FY 2017-18. 
All insurers need to draw up a policy based on the principles spelt out in the stewardship code 
within 6 months from the date of issue of these guidelines and the Board of Directors should 
approve the same. The policy should be disclosed on the website within 30 days of approval by 
-mlllll ~, <fiWT <@", iil~n<iillll, ~ -soo 004. 'qffif 
({) : 91-040-2338 1100, ~ : 91-040-6682 3334 
i. 2-
Parisharam Bhavan, 3rd Floor, Basheer Bagh, Hyderabad-500 004. India. 
Ph.: 91-040-2338 1100, Fax: 91-040-6682 3334

[Page 2]
the Board by all insurers, alongside the public disclosures. Any change/ modification to the policy 
on stewardship should be specifically disclosed at the time of updating the policy document on 
the website. 
All insurers should file a status report to the Authority on an exception basis (comply or explain), 
as per the format placed at Annexure A on an annual basis indicating the reasons/ justification 
for the deviation or non-compliance with the principles indicated in these guidelinet'{<A 
. ;,,,.--
(V R Iyer) 
Member F&I
