[Page 1]
Page 1 of 4 
 
  
Ref: IRDAI/HLT/REG/CIR/233/09/2020    
4th September, 2020 
To  
All Life, General and Health Insurance Companies 
 
Re: Guidelines on Wellness and Preventive Features  
 
1. Reference is invited to Chapter VII of the Consolidated Guidelines on Product 
Filing in Health Insurance Business issued vide Circular                               
Ref: IRDAI/HLT/REG/CIR/194/07/2020 dated 22 nd July, 2020 specifying 
norms on Wellness features. In supersession of these Guidelines on wellness 
features / benefits, under the provisions of Sec 34(1) of the Insurance Act 
1938, read with Regulation 8(d) and 19 of IRDAI (Health Insurance) 
Regulations 2016, the following norms are prescribed: 
 
a. Any wellness and preventive feature shall be designed only with the 
objective of maintaining and improving good health, thereby enabling 
affordable health insurance. 
 
b. As part of promoting wellness and preventive regime, insurers may offer 
reward points to those policyholders who comply with or meet the set 
criteria of wellness and preventive features. 
 
c. No Wellness and preventive feature shall be offered without it being filed 
or incorporated as part of the product in terms of the Product Filing 
Guidelines. The methodology and criteria to be used for arriving at the 
reward points and corresponding reward points to be awarded need to be 
filed. 
 
d. Wellness and preventive features under a policy may also be offered 
either as optional or add-on cover. 
 
e. There shall be no discrimination in providing any of the wellness and 
preventive features offered and in granting the reward points thereunder to 
the same or similarly placed categories of policyholders of the underlying 
health insurance product.   
 
f. Every Insurer shall assess the pricing impact of wellness and preventive 
features offered, if any, and the same shall be disclosed upfront in the File 
and Use or Use and File application, as may be the case, as specified in 
the Product Filing Guidelines. 
 
              Sy. No. 115/1, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad – 500032 
          Phone: 040 20204000 , Web: www.irdai.gov.in 
~1· ~ ~ ~, RIRll i'lcfi 3ITT fmmnrrf~ 
!.! INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
Wal DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF INDIA

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 4 
 
 
g. Based on criteria stipulated for wellness and fitness , insurers may 
endeavor promoting wellness amongst health insurance policyholders by 
offering the following services: 
i) Health specific services provided by Network providers  or other 
empanelled hospitals / service providers  for the following (in addition to 
any such benefits already offered): 
a) Outpatient consultations or treatments 
b) Pharmaceuticals  
c) Health check-ups/diagnostics 
Including discounts on all the above. 
 
ii) Redeemable vouchers to obtain health supplements. 
 
iii) Redeemable vouchers for membership in: 
a) Yoga centers 
b) Gymnasiums 
c) Sports clubs 
d) Fitness centers for participating in fitness activities. 
 
iv) Discounts on premiums and/or increase in sum insured at the time of 
renewals based on wellness regime followed by policyholders in the 
preceding policy period ; provided increase in sum insured shall be 
independent and shall not be linked to the cumulative bonus offered, if 
any.  
 
v) Coverage of cost of treatment  of any admissible claim  in respect of 
non-payable items that are specified under the terms and conditions of 
the base policy. 
 
Provided, where more than one reward is offered, choice shall be given to 
the policyholder to choose as per his/her requirement or need. 
 
h. Insurers shall not publish the trade names or trade logos of third party 
merchandize in any of th e insurance advertisements, but may refer the 
services in generic term. However, Insurers shall disclose the specific 
items of services in their website with necessary details and may provide a 
link to this in their insurance advertisement and policy contracts.  
 
Provided insurers shall not promote products or services of any particular 
third party service provider. 
 
Provided further, where multiple service providers are engaged by the 
insurers for providing benefits / services, the policyholders shall be allowed 
to choose a service provider of their choice for availing the wellness 
benefits / services. 
 
i. Insurers shall endeavour to engage multiple service providers for providing 
benefits / services under we llness and preventive features and the list of 
service providers may be constantly expanded by the Insurers.  Insurers 
shall not accept any liability towards quality of the services made available

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 4 
 
by third parties and shall specify upfront that the said third party is 
responsible for providing t he services stipulated under the wellness 
features and insurer is not liable for any defects or deficiencies on the part 
of the service provider. Insurers shall monitor the quality of service offered 
by service providers under wellness / preventive programs and ensure that 
they have put in place appropriate mechanism to discharge their 
obligations provided under wellness program of the applicable health 
insurance product.  
 
j. Other than the monetized value of the reward points redeemed by the 
policyholders, n o payments shall be made by insurers to the third party 
merchants.  
 
k. Insurers shall not receive any consideration amount for offering the third 
party services. 
 
l. The operational costs, if any,  for administering wellness and preventive 
features shall be factored into the pricing of the underlying health 
insurance product and costs factored shall be disclosed in the prospectus 
or sales literature (invitation to contract) wherever wellness and preventive 
features are offered. 
 
m. In case of Family Floater Plans, Insurers shall clearly define and disclose 
in policy document , the manner in which accrual and redemption of 
rewards is considered in respect of all members covered. 
 
n. Insurers shall clearly specify in the policy contract as to whether the 
accrued rewards can be carried forward or not when the policy is renewed 
with the Insurer and the period of validity of the accrued rewards under 
both the scenarios.  In case of expiry of policy, the accrued rewards may 
be carried forward for a period not exceeding three months.  
 
o. The rewards accrued shall be at periodic intervals at rates/amounts 
declared upfront at the commencement of the policy and shall not be 
linked to any dynamic factor such as interest rate. The same shall be 
specified in the Policy Document. 
 
p. Insurer shall notify the rewards accrued to the credit of a Policyholder and 
entitlements of the policyholders under the wellness and preventive 
features at periodic intervals, at least once in a year.  
 
q. Insurer shall specify in the policy contract and prospectus, the mode of 
communication that the Insurer adopts for notification of various services 
offered under the wellness and preventive features.  
 
r. Insurers shall specify the manner of redeeming the rewards accrued under 
the wellness and preventive  features in the prospectus, policy wordings 
and shall disclose updated information in their website.

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 4 
 
s. Insurer shall be responsible for any errors or omission in calculation of 
accrued rewards and shall address the same through their in-house 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
 
t. Information gathered, if any, during the process of offering the wellness 
and preventive features of the policy, shall be kept confidential and shall 
not be used for purposes other than what it is meant for.  
 
2. The Authority reserves the right to reject wellness and preventive features 
proposed by the insurer if they are against policyholders ’ interests and are not 
in line with fair market conduct notwithstanding the fact that they may broadly 
meet with the above guidelines.  
 
3. The Authority reserves the right to instruct the insurers to withdraw any 
wellness and preventive feature which is not in compliance with any 
regulations or guidelines issued by the Authority or which is found to be 
prejudicial to the interests of the policyholders or not in line with fair market 
conduct. The Authority also reserves the right in such cases to take 
appropriate action as deemed fit. 
 
4. Existing products may be modified either as per Clause (C) of Chapter III or 
Clause III (2) of Chapter IV of Consolidated Guidelines on Product Filing in 
Health Insurance Business (Ref. No: IRDAI/HLT/REG/CIR/194/07/2020 dated 
22nd July, 2020) for offering wellness and preventive features in compliance to 
these guidelines.  
 
5. These Guidelines shall come into force with immediate effect. 
 
6. This has the approval of the competent authority. 
 
 
D amesh 
General Manager (Health)
