[Page 1]
I 
Crtl;i#IM 
ir.iai 
~ 1 {if, 1.1 irnT fo f.:i 1.114 ch 3fu m chm m~ 
INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF INDIA 
IRDA/ Int/ GDL/ ORD/ 183/ 10/ 2015 
261h October, 2015 
Re: Guidelines on Point of Sales Person - Non-Life & Health Insurers 
The Authority has observed that there are number of persons who are involved In 
undertaking simple and routine activities pertaining to solicitation and marketing of 
insurance policies. For e.g. bulk of products in motor insurance. travel insurance, personal 
accident insurance, etc. require very little underwriting. These happen to be largely pre­
underwritten products wherein based on the information provided by the prospect, the 
insurance policy is automatically generated by the system. The intervention required for 
such a product is minimal and the training and examination for such persons could be of a 
lesser degree. 
In order to facilitate the growth of insurance business in the country and to enhance 
insurance penetration and insurance density. the Authority as part of its developmental 
agenda issues the following guidelines on "Point of Sales Persons". 
I. Scope and Applicability of these guidelines 
a. These guidelines shall apply to "Point of Sales Person" and those engaging 
"Point of Sales Person". 
II. Definition 
a. "Act" means the Insurance Act, 1938 
b. "Authority" means Insurance regulatory and Development Authority of India 
established under Section 3 of the IRDAI Act. 1999. 
c. "NIELIT" means National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology 
which is an autonomous scientific society of Department of Electronics and 
Information Technology, Government of India and is designated as the 
training and examining body for the ·'Point of Sales Persons". 
d. "Point of Sales Person" means an individual who possess the minimum 
qualifications, has undergone training and passed the examination as 
,-i--fn·,p." ..f,H. -fp--rrr 7,.-:. ::r::-W-;l"P7 • ~,;,r--:w:<..;00004 ...;i; 
t 91-040--23381100, TW 9'r 040-6682 :3:n,: 
1--r:r,·;:r: 1rda@1rdc1 qov.1n rfl• WWW 1rdc1 qov ,1 
P:1r1sh8.rcir1 1 Hl:;,v-1:1 :m1 F!rJl)r Bcisher,r Baqt• HydrJrdL<1il-Sf:!J ()(JrO l11d1,1 
Pr· 91-(Jl+C•-23:38: 111u h::ix (,1 -040-668:) Tn1

[Page 2]
specified in these guidelines and solicits and markets only certain pre­
underwritten products approved by the Authority. 
Ill.Point of Sales Person 
1. There shall be two types of persons who shall solicit and market insurance policies 
namely: 
a. insurance agent or specified persons of corporate agent or broker trained 
persons for soliciting and marketing insurance policies or insurance sales 
persons of Insurance Marketing Firm or rural authorised persons of CSC­
SPV or authorised person of web aggregators who can solicit and market all 
types of insurance policies 
b. "Point of Sales Person" who can solicit and market only certain pre­
underwritten products approved by the Authority. 
2. Every ·'Point of Sales Person shall be identified by his Aadhaar Card Number or his 
PAN Card. 
3. The persons soliciting and marketing such pre-underwritten products approved by 
the Authority shall be called as "Point of Sales Person". 
4. The "Point of Sales Person" shall be atleast 10th pass. 
5. He shall be sponsored to NIELIT, by the insurance company or the insurance 
intermediary with whom he shall work, for undergoing online training specified for 
"Point of Sales Person". 
6. The fees for the online training and examination shall not exceed Rs five hundred 
which will be paid to NIELIT by either the insurance company or the insurance 
intermediary who is sponsoring the individual. 
7. The training module will be hosted on NIELIT website as approved by the Authority. 
8. He shall appear in the on line examination conducted by NI ELIT who shall be the 
examining body. 
9. On successful passing the examination. he will be issued a letter by NIELIT 
certifying him to be a "Point of Sales Person".

[Page 3]
IV. Appointment of Point of Sales Person 
1. An insurance company or an insurance intermediary can engage a "Point of Sales 
Person' to represent him 
2. A · Point of Sales Person can represent an insurance company or an insurance 
intermediary 
V. Products solicited and marketed by "Point of Sales Person" 
1. The "Point of Sales Person" can sell only the following pre-underwritten product 
a. Motor Comprehensive Insurance Package Policy for Two-wheeler, private 
car and commercial vehicles 
b Third party liability (Act only) Policy for Two-wheeler. private car and 
commercial vehicles 
c. Personal Accident Policy 
d. Travel Insurance Policy 
e. Home Insurance Policy 
f. Any other Policy specifically approved by the Authority 
2. Every policy sold through the "Point of Sales Person' shall be separately identified 
and pre-fixed by the name POS - (name of product) 
3 The insurance company shall file the product with the Authority under the file use 
guidelines for information 
VI. Tagging of Proposal Form and Insurance Policy to Point of Sales Person 
1. Every proposal form. in paper or in paperless form, insurance policy and other 
related documents shall carry provision to record the Aadhaar card number of the 
PAN card number in order to tag the policy to the "Point of Sales Person" who 1s 
selling the said policy 
2. The insurance company shall be responsible to record the Aadhaar card number or 
the PAN card number of the "Point of Sales Person' in the proposal form and 
insurance policy. The insurance company shall be responsible for the conduct of 
the · Point of Sales Person representing him and any misconduct on part of the

[Page 4]
Point of Sales Person shall make 1t liable to a penalty as per provisions of Section 
1 02 of the Act 
3 For sales effected through the insurance intermediary. the insurance intermediary 
shall record the Aadhaar card number or the PAN card number of the 'Point of 
Sales Person·· in the proposal form and require insurance company to do the same 
in the insurance policy. The insurance intermediary shall be responsible for the 
conduct of the "Point of Sales Person" engaged by it and any misconduct on part of 
the Point of Sales Person shall make it liable to a penalty as per provisions of 
Section 102 of the Act 
4 One of the factors that shall be considered while renewing the certificate of 
reg1strat1on of the insurance intermediary. shall be the conduct of the "Point of Sales 
Person· on the rolls of insurance intermediary 
VII. Compliance 
The insurance companies and insurance intermediaries shall make suitable 
changes 1n their policy administration system to capture the Aadhaar Card number 
or the PAN card number details of the· Point of Sales Person· 
2. The 'Point of Sales Person· when engaged by the insurer shall place business with 
that insurer subject to compliance of rules and procedures of that insurance 
company 
3 The Authority shall specify the format and the manner of maintaining returns which 
the insurance company and the insurance intermediary shall maintain in electronic 
form which can be accessed by the Authority on a remote location basis The 
formats shall give the number of policies sold and the premium collected by the 
'Point of Sales Person· on a monthly basis 
~-~ttv 
Nilesh Sathe 
Member (Life)
