[Page 1]
• 
JI~ t,1,1aam INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
ir.tai DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF INDIA 
Guidelines on Point of Sales (POS) -Life Insurance Products 
Ref: IRDNLIFE/GDL/GLD/222/11/2016 November 7, 2016 
.. 
Background: 
Reference is drawn to Sections II (d) and V(1) of Guidelines on Point of Sales Person­
Life insurance, dated November 7, 2016 which mention the Point of Sales - Life 
Insurance Products. 
Consequently the Authority, in order to give an added fillip in providing easy access to 
Life insurance Products to people at large and to enhance insurance penetration and 
density as part of its Development agenda, having considered the feedback received 
from the stakeholders to the Exposure draft dated March 23, 2016 on the subject, 
issues the following 'Guidelines on Point of Sales - Life Insurance Products' by 
exercising the powers vested with the Authority under Sections 14 (1), 14(2) (c) & 14 (2) 
(e) of IRDA Act -1999. 
Scope and Applicability of these Guidelines: 
These Guidelines shall be applicable to the products offered by Life Insurers proposed 
to be sold through "Point of Sales Persons". 
1. Definition: "Point of Sales (POS) Product" means the simple plain vanilla type of 
product wherein each and every benefit is predefined and disclosed upfront 
clearly at the time of Sale itself and is very simple to understand. 
2. Categories of POS Products: 
(i) The Category / Nature of Products offered under POS - Life Insurance shall 
be as given hereunder: 
a. Pure Term Insurance Product with or without return of premium 
b. Non-linked Non-Participating Endowment Product (Money back feature 
. also · allowed) 
c. Immediate Annuity Product 
d. Any other product/ product category, if permitted by the Authority 
(ii) The product names should be prefixed with the words "POS" (POS-Product 
Name) 
3. The parameters of the aforesaid categories of products mentioned in point No. 
1 above shall be as shown in Annexure -1. · 
4. The condition/eligibility/parameters mentioned in the Annexure -I for different 
categories of POS Products are given as lower/upper limits within which the 
Insurer has the flexibility to design the product. 
~l';ilf ~ ' filBUc@", ol:t0(oll'I, ~-500 004. tfWf 
({) : 91-040-2338 1100, %cm: 91 -040-6682 3334 
i-"iIB: irda@irda .gov.in ~ : www.irda.gov.in 
Parisharam Bhavan, 3rd Floor, Basheer Bagh, Hyderabad-500 004. India. 
Ph.: 91-040-2338 1100, Fax: 91 -040-6682 3334 
E-mail : irda@irda.gov.in Web.: www.irda.gov.in

[Page 2]
5. Solicitation and marketing of these products is allowed to be done through 
a. Point of Sales Persons - Life insurance 
b. Individual Agents of the Life Insurer 
c. Intermediaries authorized to solicit life insurance products 
d. Insurer directly .. 
6. Life Insurers shall offer these products only as Non-Linked and Individual 
insu rance products . 
7. Unless explicitly exempted in these guidelines/ Annexure-I, the extant Regulatory 
provisions shall be applicable mutatis mutandis to these products. 
8. The CEO and the AA shall attach a certificate of compliance to these guidelines 
along with product filing . 
9. Any existing Product, may be sold as POS Product, subject to modification to 
comply with these guidelines and approval of the Authority. 
10. 'Key Features Document (KFD)-cum -- Proposal Form' Format: 
(i) There would be two parts of the 'Key Features Document cum Proposal 
Form' , where the first part would be the KFD and second part would be 
the Proposal Form. Both the parts are joined by perforation so that the first 
part (KFD) can be easily separated and given to the proposer/ Life Assured 
for his/ her record and the second part (Proposal Form) is to be preserved 
by the insurer/ representative for necessary processing . 
(ii) Key Features Document (KFD) must contain all the key benefits under 
the plan including (a) Sum Assured on Death (b) Maturity Benefit (c) 
Surrender Value (d) Paid Up Value, if any (e) Exclusions (f) Registered 
name and address of the life insurer with logo etc. 
11 . Every "Key Features Document cum Proposal form" should contain unique 
reference nt,.Jmber on both parts . 
12. The TAT for issuance of policy / acceptance of Risk and communication of 
Acceptance or otherwise message to the customer of such policy would not be 
'l"\~-fl ~two working days (excluding holidays) from the date of collection of proposal 
at the point of sale . 
13. If the Proposal is not ~ccepted for any reason whatsoever, the refund of payment 
be done to the Proposer/ Life Assured within 7 days from the date of decision. 
14. The insurers shall submit the returns on half-yearly basis as prescribed in the 
Annexure-11. 
~ 
Nilesh Sathe 
Member (Life)

[Page 3]
ANNEXURE -1 
(a) Pure Term Insurance product with or without Return of Premium 
Product Features/Parameters/Eligibility: 
Minimum Age at entry 
Maximum Age at Maturity : 
Policy Term 
Sum Assured on Death: 
Grace period 
Revival period 
Waiting Period 
(for other than Accidental 
death only) 
Death Benefit {Other than 
Accidental}: If death takes 
place -
a. During waiting 
period (if any) 
b. After expiry of 
waiting period 
Accidental Death Benefit : 
Maturity benefits 
(Without Return of Premium) 
Maturity Benefits 
(With Return of premium) 
Underwriting Conditions 
Surrender Value 
18 Yrs. 
65 Yrs. 
Min - 5 years, Max -As proposed in F&U Application 
Minimum - As proposed in F&U 
Maximum - 25 Lakh (excluding ADB Rider) 
(Sum Assured would be in the multiple of Rs 50000 only) 
As per extant Regulatory norms 
As per extant Regulatory norms 
Allowed up to a maximum period of first 90 days 
from the date of acceptance of risk 
100% of Premium paid 
Sum Assured on Death 
Equal to 'Sum Assured on Death'. No waiting period is 
applicable. 
Nil 
At least 100%of premium paid. 
Only Non-Medical underwriting 
As per extant Regulatory provisions

[Page 4]
Accidental Death Benefit 
(in built) 
Commission 
Inbuilt ADB only allowed 
For the POSPs engaged by Intermediaries no commission is 
payable by the Insurer. 
For the POSPs engaged directly by the Insurer, as proposed in 
the product F&U and approved by Authority as applica i>le to 
individual agents . 
Max Sum Assured limit Rs. 25 Lakh (excluding ADB) at Insurer level (per Insurer) 
on a single life 
Other Features/Conditions As per extant Regulatory provisions 
....

[Page 5]
(b) Non-linked, Non-Participating Endowment Product 
Product Features/Parameters/Eligibility: 
Maximum Age at 65 Yrs. 
Maturity: 
Policy Term 
Sum Assured on Death: 
Sum Assured on 
Maturity: 
Grace Period 
Revival Period 
Death Benefit 
{Other than Accidental}: 
If death takes place -
i. During waiting 
period (if any) 
ii. After expiry of 
waiting period 
Accidental Death Benefit 
Maturity benefit 
Surrender Value 
Waiting Period 
(Other than Accidental death 
only) 
Min - 5 years, Max -20 years 
Maximum -10 Lakh ( excluding ADB 
Guaranteed Maturity Benefit in absolute amount 
As per extant Regulatory provisions 
As per extant Regulatory provisions 
100% of premium paid 
Sum Assured on Death 
Equal to 'Sum Assured on Death'. No waiting period is applicable. 
Guaranteed Maturity Benefit in absolute amount 
As per extant Regulatory Provisions 
Allowed up to a maximum period of first 90 days from the date 
of acceptance of risk 
Accidental Death Benefit _ Only inbuilt ADB allowed 
Loan facility, if any Allowed

[Page 6]
Commission For the POSPs engaged by Intermediaries no commission is 
payable by the Insurer. 
For the POSPs engaged directly by the Insurer, as proposed in 
the product F&U and approved by Authority as applicable to 
individual agents. ., 
Underwriting Conditions Only Non-Medical underwriting 
Maximum Sum Assured Rs. 10 Lakh (excluding ADB) at Insurer level (per insurer) 
Li mit on a Single Life 
Oth er Features As per extant Regulatory provisions

[Page 7]
(c ) Immediate Annuity Product 
Product Featu res/Parameters/Eligibility: 
Type of Immediate Annuity 
Only 'Life Annuity with Return of Purchase Price on Death' allowed. 
Min/Maximum 
at Entry 
Age Min - 40 years 
Max - 70 years 
Mode of Premium Single Premium only 
Maximum Premium No Limit 
Minimum Annuity As per extant Regulatory provisions 
Death Benefit Return of Purchase Price 
.. 
Commission For the POSPs engaged by Intermediaries no commission is payable 
Other Features 
by the Insurer. · 
For the POSPs engaged directly by the Insurer, as proposed in the 
product F&U and approved by Authority as applicable to individual 
agents. 
As per extant Regulatory provisions

[Page 8]
Annexure- II 
Half Yearly Return in respect of POS Life Products Business 
Due date of the Return: 15th November (for April- September) and 
15th May (for October - March) every year . 
During the half-yearly period/ Cumulative details during the Year*: 
Name of the Product: 
Distribution Channel** : 
[ Details of the Business State 1 *** State 2 
I 
I so on 
Total No of Policies Issued 
Total Premium Collected 
Total Commission Paid 
Total Service Charges Paid 
Total No of Policies Discontinued (Non-
single) after the grace period 
Total No of Policies Revived during the 
period 
Total No of Policies Surrendered 
I Total No and Amount of Claims Intimated I 
I 
' 
Total No and Amount of Claims Settled 
Total No and Amount of Claims 
Outstanding 
Total No and Amount of Claims Rejected 
Total No of ln:-force Policies at the end of the 
Half-yearly Period 
Total No of the Grievances registered 
*The details shall be given for the Half-year and for the Year also separately . . 
** The details shall be given for each Distribution Channel separately 
*** The details shall be given for each State separately. 
Signature of the AA 
Date: 
Signature of the CEO 
.. 
...
