[Page 1]
~llil fctR<-llliefi 3fR Pcletilf4~ 
INSURANCE REGULATORY AN~ 
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 
Ref No. IRDA/ F&A/GDL/GLD/180/10/2015 
October 19, 2015 
Guidelines on "Indian owned and controlled" 
The Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act 2015 introduced some much awaited 
reforms, including, increasing the foreign investment cap in the insurance sector to 
49 percent, permitting overseas reinsurers to open branch offices to carry out 
reinsurance business in India, etc. The Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 
also provides for "Indian Owned and controlled" requirement for an Indian Insurance 
Company. 
The Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 defines Indian insurance company 
under Section 2(7 A) as under: 
"Indian insurance company" means any insurer , being a company which is limited 
by shares, and, -
(a) Which is formed and registered under the Companies Act, 2013 as a public 
company or is converted into such a company within one year of the 
commencement of Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015; 
(b) In which the aggregate holdings of equity shares by foreign investors, 
including portfolio investors, do not exceed forty-nine per cent of the paid up 
equity capital of such Indian insurance company, which is Indian owned and 
controlled, in such manner as may be prescribed. 
Explanation - For the purpose of this sub-clause, the expression "control" 
shall include the right to appoint a majority of the directors or to control the 
management or policy decisions including by virtue of their shareholding or 
management rights or shareholders agreement or voting agreements; /2__ 
-qft fr: cf\mTc@, csl~ft(csli•I, ~-500 004. m@ 
;;r,91-~lo~3381100 , ~ : 91-040-6682 3334 
i-m,f: irda@irda.gov.in ~: www.irda.gov .in 
Parisharam Bhavan, 3rd Floor, Basheer Bagh, Hyderabad-500 004. India. 
Ph.: 91-040-2338 1100, Fax: 91-040-6682 3334 
E-mail: irda@irda.gov.in Web.: www.irda.gov.in

[Page 2]
(c) Whose sole purpose is to carry 6n life insurance business or general 
insurance business or re-insurance business or health insurance business. 
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (aaa) of sub-section (2) of section 114 
of the Insurance Act, 1938 read with clause (b) of sub-section (7A) of section 2 of 
the Insurance Act, 1938 and section 24 of the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999), the Central Government has notified 
the Indian Insurance Companies (Foreign Investment) Rules, 2015. These Rules 
mainly govern Indian control of Indian Insurance Company, Indian ownership and 
issues relating to foreign investment. The definition of "Indian ownership" has since 
been amended by Indian Insurance Companies (Foreign Investment) Amendment 
Rules, 2015. 
As per the above definition, control can be exercised by the virtue of 
(a) Shareholding; (or) 
(b) Management rights; (or) 
(c) Shareholders agreements; (or) 
(d) Voting agreements; or 
(e) Any other manner as per applicable laws. 
In order to bring more clarity on the issue of compliance with the manner of "Indian 
owned and controlled", the Authority, in exercise of powers conferred under Section 
14 (1) of the IRDA Act 1999, lays down the following guidelines on compliance of 
"Indian owned and controlled". 
1. Applicability : These guidelines are applicable to Indian Insurance Companies 
which 
a) May come into existence after notification of the Act; 
b) May propose to hike their foreign investment from the existing level; and 
c) Do not intend to increase their current foreign stake from the existing 
level. 
2. Total foreign investment: Both direct and indirect holding in an Indian insurance 
company shall not exceed 49 percent. Total foreign investment shall be 
21 Page

[Page 3]
computed in accordance with Rule Z'(P) read with Regulation 11 of the IRDAI , 
(Registration of Indian Insurance Companies) Regulations, 2000. 
3. Control: Control can be exercised by a~y one or more of the following criteria: 
(a) Virtue of shareholding; (or) 
(b) Management rights; (or) 
(c) Shareholders agreements; (or) 
(d) Voting agreements; (or) 
(e) Any other manner as per the applicable laws. 
4. Indian Control : The Indian insurance company shall ensure the following: 
i. Majority of the directors excluding independent directors should be 
nominated by the Indian promoter (s) / Indian investor (s); 
ii. Appointment of key management person including Chief Executive Officer/ 
Managing Director /Principal officer should be through the Board of 
Directors or by the Indian promoter (s) and/ or Indian investor (s); 
However, Key Management Person (s) excluding CEO may be nominated by 
the foreign investor provided that the appointment of such Key 
Management person is approved by the Board of Directors, wherein 
majority of the directors excluding independent directors are the nominees 
of Indian promoter (s) / Indian investor (s). 
iii. The control over significant policies of the insurance company should be 
exercised by the Board, provided that the constitution of the Board is 
compliant with para (i) above. 
iv. Where the Chairman of the Board is having a casting vote, such Chairman 
should be nominated by the Indian promoter (s) and/ or Indian investor (s); 
v. Quorum: Quorum shall mean and include presence of majority of the 
Indian directors irrespective of whether a foreign investor's nominee is 
present or not. The right of a Foreign Investor's nominee to constitute valid 
3I Page

[Page 4]
quorum for meetings is only a protective right and to that extent would not 
amount to control within the meaning of Explanation to Clause (7A) (b) as 
long as the presence of nominees of Indian Promoter (s) / Investor (s) are 
also mandatorily taken into account for the purposes of quorum. 
Provided that the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 shall come into force 
in case of an adjournment. 
5. Manner of ensuring compliance of "Indian Owned and Controlled" 
i. An undertaking to this effect shall be filed by all Indian Insurance 
Companies duly signed by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Compliance 
Officer confirming the compliance of "Indian owned and controlled". 
ii. Every undertaking shall be accompanied by 
a) A certified copy of resolution passed by the Board of Directors 
confirming the compliance of "Indian owned and controlled "; 
b) Where applicable, certified copy of the agreement / Joint venture 
agreement where amendments have been carried out to these 
agreements/ joint ventures agreement to give effect the provisions of 
"Indian owned and controlled". 
6. Insurance Intermediaries: These guidelines are also applicable to Insurance 
Intermediaries as defined in the IRDA Act, 1999 such as Brokers, Third Party 
Administrators, Surveyors and Loss Assessors etc. However, in case of an 
insurance intermediary having more than 50 percent of its revenue from the 
non-insurance activities, these guidelines shall not be applicable to such 
insurance intermediaries. 
7. Time Limit for Compliance: 
i. Compliance by Existing Indian insurance companies: Existing Indian 
insurance companies stated at para 1 (b) and (c) above are required to 
comply with "India n Owned and controlled" guidelines within a period of 
thr ee months from the date of issue of these guidelines. However, the 
41 Page

[Page 5]
t r 
Authority may, on an application made to it by an existing insurer, for valid 
reasons, grant a further period of three months to comply, provided that the 
total time taken by an existing insurer to comply with "Indian owned and 
controlled" stipulations does not extend beyond six months. 
ii. Insurance Companies coming into existence post issuance of these 
Guidelines: shall comply with these guidelines before grant of certificate of 
registration. 
8. These Guidelines shall come into force from the date of issue. 
9. Interpretation: The interpretation of these Guidelines shall be that of the 
Chairperson, in any matter as deemed fit. 
SI Page 
(T 5 Vijayan) 
Chairman
