[Page 1]
Guidelines for IE of Public Procurement Contracts by CVOs  1 
 
 
GUIDELINES 
 FOR 
INTENSIVE EXAMINATION OF 
PUBLIC PROCUREMENT CONTRACTS 
BY  
CHIEF VIGILANCE OFFICERS 
 
 
 
 
 
CHIEF TECHNICAL EXAMINER’S ORGANISATION 
 
CENTRAL VIGILANCE COMMISSION

[Page 2]
Guidelines for IE of Public Procurement Contracts by CVOs  2 
 
1.0 INTRODUCTION: 
 Chief Technical Examiner ’s Organisation (CTEO) conducts Intensive 
Examination(IE) based upon Quarterly Progress Reports (QPRs), submitted by the 
Chief Vigilance Officers (CVOs) of different organisations.  
 
It is the considered opinion of the Central Vigilance Commission (herein after 
referred to as ‘Commission’ only) that similar type of Intensive Examinations  (IEs) 
carried out by the CVOs, while functioning as extended arms of the Commission, in 
their respective organisations , would bring about qualitative and in depth  
improvement, both in terms of c ontents and scope, approach to vigilance 
administration. It is imperative that CVO of an organisation carries out IEs, of some 
judiciously chosen contracts, broadly representing spectrum of the core activities of 
the organisation.  
 
Effort is hereby made to prepare broad guidelines to help the CVOs effectively carry 
out IEs of various procurement contracts at their end. 
 
In order to conduct Intensive Examination effectively and in a proper manner, the 
CVO should endeavour to associate himself along with his vigilance team whenever 
any CTE examination is undertaken by the CTEO in the organisation.  
 
2.0 OBJECTIVES: 
 Our main objective is to make public procurement process most transparent, 
fair, equitable, efficient, economic and conducive to achieving value for the money 
spent. To meet this end, purpose of the IEs, conducted by the CVO of the 
organisation, are multi pronged and as follows:- 
(i) preventive vigilance is the first an d foremost objective of such IE , 
conducted by the CVOs. In the course of an IE, if it appears that the extant 
guidelines/instructions, on any subject related with public procurement, 
procedures and practices are deficient in any manner and afford scope for 
malpractices or corruption, system improvement  should be suggested to 
the Management to eliminate such loopholes. Further , system

[Page 3]
Guidelines for IE of Public Procurement Contracts by CVOs  3 
 
improvements can also be suggested to b ring elements of transparency, 
fairness and equity in the public procurement process; 
(ii) surveillance and detective vigilance will be ensured by way of effective and 
in depth IEs, which shall bring out various irregularities  and malpractices 
committed/prevailing in the procurement system.  People responsible can 
be suitably taken up for their respective misconduct; 
(iii) recoveries, if any  to be made , on account of deficiencies in the execution 
of contractual obligations , on the part of the contractor/s , wil l be given 
effect to, as a result of IEs; 
(iv) IEs by the CVOs will afford natural justice to the officials of the 
organisation, responsible for decision making and execution of the 
contracts, as they will be given adequate opportunity to explain their 
action/conduct, before fixing of the responsibility, as a logical conclusion of 
any IE . In  this regard, domain knowledge , better appreciation of the 
circumstances and  field conditions, prevailing at the material time, of/by 
the CVO, will help realistic assessment  of the systemic deficiencies and 
degree of culpability of involved officials; 
(v) sharing of the experience and outcome of IEs with other organisations, 
especially from the same industry, on  a regular basis, will help maximise 
benefits of vigilance administra tion; given the fact that most of the 
vigilance units work with limited resources, information sharing may 
function as a multiplier in ensuring vigilance effectiveness; and 
(vi) regularity in the submission of Quarterly Progress Reports (QPRs) (as per 
the laid down threshold monetary limits or a ‘NIL’ report, as the case may 
be), compliance of laid down instructions and qualitative aspect , of at least 
prescribed number of IEs , will help the  Commission annually assess the 
performance of the CVOs. 
 
3.0  STRENGTHENING OF CVO’S ESTABLISHMENT: 
 It is imperative that adequate man-power is available with the CVOs  - 
especially the officers having experience and expertise in various procurement 
activities of the organisation. It is for the CVOs to make a realistic assessment of the 
requirement of the man -power and infrastructure. It  would be  incumbent upon the

[Page 4]
Guidelines for IE of Public Procurement Contracts by CVOs  4 
 
Management to provide necessary support and co -operation to the CVOs in this 
regard. 
 
4.0  SELECTION OF CONTRACTS: 
4.1 The selection of contracts for IE should be done from the QPRs, submitted by 
the CVOs to the CTEO. Each CVO shall carry out IE of not less than six (06 Nos.) of 
contracts of different nature  (supply, works, services, etc), contract values, activity 
centres and areas  in a year. Preferably, selection should be done in a manner that , 
at least , three contracts  of large value, two contracts of medium  value and one 
contract of small value are selected for IE. Value of the contract s may be judiciously 
categorised to decide  the large, medium or small value contracts,  by the CVOs , 
keeping in view the scale of procurement activities and nature, in the organisation. 
 
4.2   CVOs shall inform  CTEO about  details of contracts selected for IE, so as to 
avoid duplicity, if any, in the selection of contracts by the CTEO.  
 
4.3     In cases where no contract qualifies to be included in any QPR & a ‘NIL’ report 
is required to be submitted, the CVO will select prescribed number of contracts from 
the list of existing contracts, following criteria laid down in Para 4.1 above.  
     
5.0 DOCUMENTS FOR EXAMINATION: 
 After selection of the contracts for IE, all relevant documents, samples  
pertaining to the said contract, shall be collected and examined. Following is a list of 
documents which should normally be requisitioned for taking up an IE -  
I.  (a) Press cuttings  indicating publication of Notice Inviting Tender (NIT )/ 
Expression of Interest (EOI) and subsequent corrigendum(s),if any. 
 (b) Copy of print out in support of publicity of the tender on the website: 
i)for pre-qualification of Architects / Consultants; 
 ii)for pre-qualification of contractors; 
 iii)call of tenders. 
 (c) Record of sale of tenders. 
 (d) Record of tender opening. 
II.  Record of Administrative Approval and Expenditure Sanction.

[Page 5]
Guidelines for IE of Public Procurement Contracts by CVOs  5 
 
III. Copy of Detailed Project Report (DPR)/D etailed Estimate (DE) and its 
Technical Sanction by the Competent Technical Authority. 
IV.  Approval of NIT in original& draft Tender Document. 
V.  Pre-Tender Documents. 
VI.  Record of proceedings of Tender Scrutiny Committee (TSC)/ Tender 
Evaluation Committee (TEC): 
i) for selection of architects/consultants; 
ii) for Contractors/suppliers/ other service providers.  
VII.  Record of current assessment of the cost to assess the reasonableness of the 
L1/H1 offer.  
VIII.  Details regarding negotiations, if any, conducted with recording of reasons  
before acceptance of tenders. 
IX.  Record of acceptance of tender by the Competent Authority. 
X.  Original contract with consultant/contractor. 
XI.  Guarantee bond s towards Performance Guarantee, S ecurity Deposit, 
Specialised items, Machinery/M obilization/Material Advances  etc. including 
extension of their validity, if any. 
XII.  (i) Insurance Policies for work, materials equipment, men etc including 
extension of validity. 
(ii) Letter of credit in original. 
XIII.  Guarantee for water tightness, termite proofing, etc. 
XIV.  Standard specifications; inspection documents. 
XV. Standard Schedule of Rates. 
XVI.     Drawing – Architectural and Structural. 
XVII.    All connected measurement books, level books field books and lead charts. 
XVIII.  All bills paid in original / running account bills with all connected enclosures /
 statements / vouchers. 
XIX.  Statements showing details of check of measurements by superior officers, 
copies of order laying down such requirements. 
XX.  (i) Materials at site accounts / cement, steel bitumen, paints, waterproofing    
              compound, pig lead, anti-termite chemical, etc. 
 (ii) Stock / Issue register of stores. 
XXI.   Site order book / test records / log books.

[Page 6]
Guidelines for IE of Public Procurement Contracts by CVOs  6 
 
XXII.  Details of extra / substituted items and of deviated quantities being executed
 considered for execution in the work along with analysis of rates. 
XXIII. Hindrance Register. 
XXIV. Office correspondence files and inspection notes issued by inspecting officer  
           and their file. 
XXV.  Complaint records, if any. 
XXVI.  Any other documents relevant to the procurement process. 
 This list is not exhaustive; CVOs may requ isition more  documents, as 
considered necessary, for an effective and holistic examination of the contract. 
 
6.0  INSPECTIONS: 
 Inspections should be carried out  with prior intimation to the Management , 
unless the situation demands otherwise . Officers connected with various activities of 
the contract viz. planning, design, tender processing, acceptance of tenders and 
execution should be duly informed. T he representative (s) of the contractor(s) and 
consultant, if any, should be encouraged to be present during the inspection. 
 However, samples, if required, should be taken in the presence of 
representatives of contractor(s) and officials concerned and should be duly sealed . 
Signatures of the persons present during sampling should be taken as a token of 
their witness. Samples may be taken by inspecting team for independent testing in a 
laboratory of repute and reliability, preferably Government ones. 
 
7.0 CHECK POINTS TO CARRY OUT INTENSIVE EXAMINATION BY CVOs: 
7.1 No amount of instructions can be adequate and all inclusive to lay down the 
areas/ points, to be covered in the course of an IE across the different organisations. 
It is out of experience in an organisation only that a CVO will get to know about the 
sensitive areas/activities/stages which are to be kept under watch.  
7.2     However, a broad list of the points to guide IE in any organisation is as 
follows:- 
I. Objective to be fulfilled by way of undertaking the procurement process, under 
examination. 
II. Feasibility study, if any, before formulating the project. 
III. Assessment of the requirement/quantity; any past trend, forecast etc.

[Page 7]
Guidelines for IE of Public Procurement Contracts by CVOs  7 
 
IV. Preparation of a realistic cost estimate; administrative and technical approvals 
of the proposal by the competent authorities; sanction of the expenditure by a 
competent authority; budgetary provisions, etc. 
V. Various aspects related to tendering stage of the procurement process. 
VI. Various aspects related with post tendering and execution stage of the 
procurement process. 
VII. Availability and compliance of the extant policies/ instructions, on the subject 
matters of procurement under examination, of the GOI or other concerned 
bodies e.g. CVC; availability, compliance and  regular updation (in light of 
extant policies/instructions of the GOI/ concerned bodies and current trends 
and practices, as considered relevant to the overall objectives of procurement 
process) of departmental Codes/Manuals/instructions on the subject ma tters 
of procurement under examination. 
VIII. Leveraging technology- status of implementation of e-Procurement, e-Auction, 
e-Reverse Auction etc. 
IX. Training of the officials, dealing with the procurement process, in different 
aspects of the procurement. 
X. Timely fulfilment of the objective, to be met by way of the procurement 
process under examination. 
 
7.3      The list is not exhaustive. Any other points/activities can be brought under 
scrutiny to make the examination effective and complete. In this regard, instructions 
issued by the Commission, from time to time, and a  list of check points , hoisted by 
the Commission, on its website, under the title’ ILLUSTRATIVE CHECK POINTS FOR 
VARIOUS STAGES OF PUBLIC PROCUREMENT’, may be referred to. 
 
8.0    PRELIMINARY REPORT & REFERENCES TO CONCERNED UNIT HEADS: 
8.1 Based on scrutiny of the documents & field inspections  carried out, CVO shall 
summarise the findings  in the form of a Preliminary Report. He shall arrange to take 
over all original documents considered important , necessary and relevant pertaining 
to the case that are likely to be required to prove charges, if any, during disciplinary 
action/prosecution stage.

[Page 8]
Guidelines for IE of Public Procurement Contracts by CVOs  8 
 
8.2   Wherever required, reference s shall be made to the concerned unit heads , 
seeking clarifications and/or advising immediate interim actions, if any. 
Such references may seek – 
a. a statement regarding correctness of the facts stated in the Preliminary 
Report; if some of the facts are not correct, this should be clearly brought out 
and at the same time the correct facts, if different from the facts mentioned in the 
Report, should also be indicated; 
b. suitable reply/clarification/explanation/supplementary information, from the 
officials immediately responsible,  for the facts of commission or omission 
brought out in the Report; 
c. comments of the Unit Heads on (b) as above; 
d. any other query/information/document/sample, as considered necessary, to 
bring the IE to its logical conclusion. 
 
8.3  The reply from the concerned Unit Head will be made in a time bound 
manner, within 15 days from the date of receipt of the reference from the CVO or as 
decided by the CVO, depending upon the merit of the case. 
 
9.0    INTENSIVE EXAMINATION REPORT: 
After receipt of the reply against the references based on Preliminary Report, from 
the concerned Unit Head, IE Report shall be prepared covering the following points- 
a. Preliminary estimate, administrative approval and expenditure sanction , 
vetting of demands, framing of specification , assessment of quantity, etc.  in 
respect of the tender. 
b.  Detailed estimate, technical sanction. 
c.  Appointment of Consultant. 
d.  Pre-qualification of bidders. 
e.  Call of tenders and award of work. 
f.  Contract Agreement. 
g.  Inspection, dispatch and acceptance of performance. 
h.  Scrutiny of bills. 
i.  Scrutiny of site records. 
j.  Site inspection. 
k.   Updation of Codes/ Procurement Manual/instructions.

[Page 9]
Guidelines for IE of Public Procurement Contracts by CVOs  9 
 
l.  Leveraging technology - status of implementation of e-procurement/e- 
auction/e-reverse auction, etc. 
m.   Training of the officials dealing with procurement. 
n.    Suggested System Improvements. 
o.    Recoveries effected, if any. 
 Above list is not exhaustive; other points relevant to the contract may also be 
incorporated, if required. 
 
 The Report will bring out instances of lapses/irregularities in appointment of 
consultant, prequalification of bidders, defective bidding conditions, awarding 
contract, defective contract conditions and clauses, pre -dispatch inspection, post  
contract amendments, over payments made to contractors, substandard work , 
infructuous and avoidable expenditure etc. 
 
 The Report will  also suggest preventive measures in certain areas as  
safeguard against mal -practices or corrupt practices and to plug loopholes in  the 
procedure, rules, regulation etc.In such cases action should be taken by the CVO to 
have suitable directions issued by the Management of the Organisation.  
 
10.0    ACTIONS ON THE IE REPORT: 
10.1 The CVO shall  submit the IE Report to the Management for information and 
necessary action. The Management shall take appropriate /corrective/punitive action 
with regard to the report with in 90 (ninety) days from the date of its receipt and 
ensure taking them to finality. 
 
10.2 W here serious irregularit ies, grave misconduct, negligence, etc. are observed 
on the part of any  public servant  and disciplinary actions , or otherwise,  involves 
advice of the Commission, same shall be processed as per the extant instructions on 
the subject, within 90 (ninety) days from the date of preparation of the Report. 
 
10.3 CVOs shall continue to furnish d etails/Information of these IEs (under the 
head ‘CTE TYPE INSPECTIONS’) and their outcome to the Commission, on annual 
basis, as per extant instructions.

[Page 10]
Guidelines for IE of Public Procurement Contracts by CVOs  10 
 
10.4   Each CVO shall share relevant information e.g. facts of the case  in brief , 
irregularities noticed, systemic improvements suggested, issues requiring policy 
decision, etc., from the examined cases as case study, on regular basis, with other 
organisations, especially from the same industry. 
 
******
