[Page 1]
• 
I INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
itdai DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF INDIA 
Ref:IRDAI/CAGTS/GDULCE /202/11/2015 18.11.2015 
CEOs of all insurers and CIEs of all existing Corporate Agents 
Instructions for obtaining Certificate of Registration under IRDAI 
(Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015 
Reference is made to IRDAI (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015 
(herein after referred to as "the Regulations") which were notified by the Authority on 
20.08.2015 and will be effective from 01 .04.2016. 
These regulations shall cover Registration of Corporate Agents for the purpose of 
soliciting, procuring and servicing of Insurance business of life insurers , general insurers 
and health insurers during the validity of certificate of registration as follows . 
(a) A Corporate Agent (Life) can have arrangements with a maximum of three 
life insurers to solicit , procure and service their insurance products 
(b) A Corporate Agent (General) can have arrangements with a maximum of 
three general insurers to solicit , procure and service their insurance 
products . Further , the Corporate Agent (General) shall solicit, procure and 
service retail lines of general insurance products and commercial lines of 
such insurers having a total sum insured not exceeding rupees five crore per 
risk for all insurances combined. 
(c) A Corporate Agent (Health) can have arrangements with a maximum of 
three health insurers to solicit , procure and service their insurance products. 
(d) In the case of Corporate Agent (Composite) the conditions as specified in 
clauses (a) to (c) shall apply. 
(e) Any change in the arrangement with the insurance companies shall be done 
only with the prior approval of the Authority and with suitable arrangements 
for servicing existing policyholders . 
As per Regu 1 (3) a Corporate Agent who has been issued a license prior to the 
commencement of these regulations has to obtain a fresh certificate of registration to 
work as a Corporate Agent, w.e.f. 01.04.2016 , by applying to the Authority in 
accordance with the procedure specified by the Authority in this behalf. 
:> 
~~ ~, -amuc@, ~. ~-500 004. '1Ro 
<b : 91-040-2338 1100, m: 91-040-6682 3334 
t-iIB: irda@irda.gov.in <hf: www.irda.gov.in 
1 
Parisharam Bhavan, 3rd Floor, Basheer Bagh, Hyderabad-500 004. India. 
Ph.: 91-040-2338 1100, Fax: 91-040-6682 3334 
E-mail: irda@irda.gov.in Web.: www.irda.gov.in

[Page 2]
In view of the above , all the Corporate Agents are advised to ensure that they have 
their infrastructure/systems in place before applying for certificate of registration through 
online by 31 .01 .2016, in order to comply with the regulations . 
► Every Corporate Agent which is a company (including Bank/NBFC) has to file, at 
the time of seeking registration , with the Authority, a Board Approved Policy on 
the manner of solicit ing and servicing insurance products . The Policy shall 
include the approach to be followed by the Corporate Agent in having single or 
multiple tie-ups , the partners in the tie-ups, the business mix, the type of products 
to be sold, grievance redressal mechanism , compliance and the plan for adopting 
open architecture and timelines to achieve the same. 
In case of LLP/Co-op Society/NGOs who are Corporate Agents the Principal 
Officer should submit to the Author ity an undertaking on the manner of soliciting 
and servicing insurance products , including the approach to be followed by the 
Corporate Agent in having single or multiple tie-ups , the partners in the tie-ups , 
the business mix, the type of products to be sold, grievance redressal 
mechanism , compliance and the plan for adopting open architecture and 
timelines . 
► Every Corporate Agent , where the revenue from their insurance intermediation 
activities is more than fifty per cent of their total revenue from all the activities , 
shall take out and maintain at all times a professional indemnity insurance 
cover throughout the validity of the period of the registration granted to it by the 
Authority . The limit of indemnity shall be two times the total annual remuneration 
of the Corporate Agent derived from his insurance intermediation activities in the 
preceding financ ial year subject to a minimum of Rupees fifteen lakh and a 
maximum of Rupees one hundred crore , in compliance with Regu 19. 
► The Corporate Agent has to maintain records in the format specified by the 
Authority which shall capture policy-wise and specified person-wise details 
wherein each policy solicited by the Corporate Agent is tagged to the specified 
person . 
Also, it has to maintain records in the format specified by the Authority which 
shall capture policy-wise and Authorized Verifier-wise details wherein each policy 
solicited by the Corporate Agent through the distant mode is tagged to the 
Authorized Verifier . 
The Corporate Agent shall put in place systems which allow regular access to 
such records and details by the Authority. 
fr 2

[Page 3]
► The Corporate Agent has to develop a mechanism to take adequate steps for 
redressal of grievances of its clients within 14 days of receipt of such complaint 
and keep the Authority informed on the number, nature and other particulars of 
the complaints received from such clients in format and manner as may be 
specified by the Authority. 
► Requirements of Capital - An applicant exclusively doing insurance distribution 
shall have a minimum equity share capital or contribution and net worth of rupees 
fifty lakh, which shall be maintained at all times. The aggregate holdings of 
equity shares or contribution by a foreign investor, including portfolio investors, 
shall be as prescribed by the Central Government from time to time. 
► Payment of fees and the consequences of failure to pay fees -
Every Corporate Agent shall at the time of application of registration and renewal 
thereof pay non-refundable application fee of Rs.10,000/- plus applicable taxes. 
The fees shall be payable by an Account Payee draft in favour of "Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India" payable at Hyderabad or by 
recognised electronic funds transfer to Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India. No application shall be processed without the application fee. 
Upon receipt of communication for grant of registration from the Authority, the 
applicant shall pay a fee of Rs.25,000/- plus applicable taxes, within 15 days of 
receipt of such communication. On receipt of the fee and on satisfactory 
compliance of terms and conditions for grant of registration, the Authority shall 
grant the registration to act as a Corporate Agent under the category for which an 
application is made. 
The existing Corporate Agents may make both the payments, viz. non refundable 
fee of Rs. 10,000/- plus applicable taxes and the Registration Fee of Rs. 25,000/­
plus applicable taxes, as a Single Payment of Rs. 35,000/- plus applicable 
taxes, at the time of application for registration. 
We further inform that the Principal Officers, Specified Persons (SP) and 
Authorized Verifiers (AV) who possess a valid certificate issued by the Authority 
upon successful completion of training and the pre recruitment examination in 
accordance with IRDA (Licensing of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2002 need not 
appear for the training and examination again. It is deemed that they are in 
compliance with training and examination requirements under the Regulations. An 
y 
3

[Page 4]
amount of Rs.500/- plus applicable taxes for each SP and AV is to be paid at the 
time of application for registration for obtaining certificate to act as SP/AV. 
While submitting the application for registration, we advise the entities to submit 
the documents as per Annexure 2 of the Regulations. 
We advise the insurance companies to take up the matter with their 
Corporate Agents and ensure their preparedness to work under the 
Regulations. 
~ 
Member (Life) 
4
