[Page 1]
• 
JI~ 
t, ►,,am INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
ir.tai DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF INDIA 
IRDA/F&A/GDL/PEF /263/12/2017 
December 5, 2017 
IRDAI (Investment by Private Equity Funds in Indian Insurance Companies) 
Guidelines. 2017 
Background 
The Authority in past has allowed Private Equity Fund (PE Fund) and Alternative Investment 
Fund (AIF) to invest in insurance companies as investors. However, in recent past, the 
Authority is in receipt of proposals wherein Private Equity Fund/ Venture Fund/ Alternative 
Investment have evinced interest in purchase of stake / promote an insurance company 
either as investor or as promoter. 
In light of the above, the Authority, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub (1) of Section 
14 of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act , 1999, read with clause (b) of 
sub-section (4) of Section GA of the Insurance Act, 1938, hereby , issues the following 
guidelines: 
1. Applicability: 
i. These Guidelines shall be in addition to, and should be read with any other law for 
the time being in force , including the IRDAI (Transfer of Equity shares of Insurance 
Companies) Regulations, 2015 ; 
ii. These Guidelines shall be called Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of lndia(lnvestment by Private Equity Fund or Alternate Investment Fund in Indian 
Insurance Companies) Guidelines , 2017 ; 
iii. These Guidelines shall be applicable to unlisted Indian insurance companies and 
to the Private Equity Funds who have invested in the unlisted Indian insurance 
companie _s either as investor or as promoter; 
iuv. These guidelines shall come into effect on the day of the issuance. 
_:..:----
1 I P age 
1Tft:~ \lcR, ~m.1, oi~n<•M, ~-soo 004 . mm 
(f) : 91-040 -2338 1100 . m : 91-040-RRR? 3334 
Parisharam Bhavan, 3rd Floor, Basheer Bagh, Hyderabad-500 004. India. 
Ph · Q1 .n;1n.?'=l'lR 11 nn ~<>v· 01 .n,rn.~~R? 'l'l'lA

[Page 2]
PART-A 
2. Definitions: In these guidelines, unless the context otherwise requires, -
i. "Act" means Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938); 
ii. "Authority" means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
established under sub-section (1) of Section 3 of Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999); 
iii. "Private Equity Fund" includes an Alternative Investment Fund registered with 
SEBI under the SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012 and/ or a 
Fund specifically formed for investment in one or more entities by one or more 
persons. 
Provided that foreign investment in such Fund will be determined in accordance 
with the guidelines issued by DIPP, Govt of India from time to time. 
iv. "Special Purpose Vehicle", for the purpose of these Guidelines, means a company 
registered under the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 or a Limited Liability Firm 
formed under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 by the Private Equity 
Fund for the purpose of investment in insurance company as investor or promoter 
or both. 
v. All words and expressions used· herein and not defined, but defined in the 
Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938) or in the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999), or in any Rules or Regulations made thereunder, 
shall have the meaning respectively assigned to them in those Acts or Rules or 
Vl-egulations. 
_!.---"" 
21 Page

[Page 3]
Part-B 
3. A Private Equity Fund may invest directly in an Indian insurance company in capacity of 
investor subject to compliance of the following conditions: 
i. Investment shall be as per the fund's strategy reflected in its placement 
memorandum to its investors; 
ii. The Fund shall not hold shares in the insurance company exceeding ten percent 
of the paid up equity share capital of insurance company; 
iii. All Indian investors including the investment by the Private Equity Fund /s jointly 
shall not hold more than twenty-five percent of paid up equity share capital of the 
insurance company; 
iv. The minimum shareholding by promoters/ promoter group shall at all times be 
maintained at 50 percent of the paid up equity capital of the insurer. However, 
where the present holding of the promoters is below 50 percent, such holding 
shall be the minimum holding. 
v. The investment shall be subject to compliance of Fit and Proper criteria. A self­
certification for "Fit & Proper " shall be filed along with the application for transfer 
of the shares. The determination as to Fit and Proper status shall be made on the 
basis of the criteria laid down in Annexure A read with part C below; 
vi. A specific undertaking shall be given by the Private Equity Fund/s to not to create 
any encumbrance on or leverage the investment; 
vii. In case the investment is onetime, then the Private Equity Fund shall make an 
upfront disclosure to this effect. 
4. A Private Equity Fund may also invest in an Indian insurance company through a Special 
Purpose Vehicle either in capacity of promoter or investor. Where a Private Equity Fund 
(through an SPV) invests in an insurance company in capacity of Indian investor then the 
Private Equity Fund shall comply with the stipulations stated in para 3 above. 
~ 
3 ~

[Page 4]
5. A Private Equity Fund shall not be allowed to invest directly in an Indian insurance 
company in capacity of promoter. However, a Private Equity Fund can invest through a 
Special Purpose Vehicle in an Indian insurance company subject to the following: 
i. A Private Equity Fund through an SPV shall not be a promoter for more than one 
life insurer, one general insurer , one health insurer and one reinsurer; 
ii. Scheme to be filed with SEBI in accordance with the provisions of the relevant 
SEBI regulations , as applicable; 
iii. Investment shall be as per the fund's strategy reflected in its placement 
memorandum to its investors and shall be made entirely out of own funds and 
not from borrowed funds; 
iv. The investment memorandum or the charter documents of the investor or the 
investment vehicle , as the case may be, must permit the investment to be made 
in the least upto the proposed limits including in respect of the future capital 
requirements of the insurance company; 
v. The investment shall be subject to compliance of Fit and Proper criteria. A 
declaration for "Fit & Proper" shall be filed with the Authority in the format given 
in Annexure-A. The determination as to Fit and Proper status shall be made on 
the basis of the criteria laid down in Annexure A read with Part-C below; 
vi. A specific undertaking to be given to not create any encumbrance on or leverage 
the investment made through borrowings; 
vii. The investments made shall be subject to a lock in period of five years. The lock 
in period shall be applicable on SPV and also on the shareholders of the SPV. 
Provided that the above said lock in period shall not be applicable on the 
~ hareholder / s of SPV holding less than 10 percent capital of SPV; 
__.!----
41 Page

[Page 5]
viii. Any induction of new shareholder/s in SPV by issue of fresh shares beyond 25 
percent shall require the prior approval of the Authority. 
ix. The minimum shareholding by promoters/ promoter group shall at all times be 
maintained at 50 percent of the paid up equity capital of the insurer. However, 
where the present holding of the promoters is below 50 percent, such holding 
shall be the minimum holding. 
x. The Indian insurance company shall comply with Guidelines on "Indian owned and 
Controlled" issued by the Authority; 
xi. The Indian insurance company shall comply with the Indian Insurance Companies 
(Foreign Investment) Rules, 2015; 
xii. Chairman of the Board of the Indian Insurance Company shall be an independent 
director, failing which the CEO / Managing Director / WTD should be a 
professional and should not be a nominee of a promoter. 
xiii. At least one third of the directors on the Board of the insurance company must be 
independent directors; 
xiv. An undertaking to subscribe to the rights issue of the insurance company to be 
provided to ensure that the Indian insurance company is not cash strapped. 
xv. An undertaking of the post lock in period divestment plan preferably through an 
IPO in accordance with the relevant regulation applicable for such divestment 
shall be submitted. 
6. Private Equity Funds shall, in addition, to the above shall comply with the provisions of 
IRDAI (Transfer of Equity Shares of Insurer) Regulations, 2015 including the filing of the 
$ation for transfer of the equity shares. 
SI Page

[Page 6]
Part-C 
7. DETERMINATION OF "FIT AND PROPER" STATUS: Illustrative criteria for determining "fit 
and proper" status of applicants: 
In determining whether the Private Equity Fund or SPV is "fit and proper" to be a promoter 
/ or investor of Indian insurance companies , the Authority may take into account all 
relevant factors, as appropriate, including , but not limited to the following: 
i. For acquisition of upto 10 per cent shareholding in the concerned insurer 
a) The applicant's integrity , reputation and track record in financial matters and 
compliance with tax laws; 
b) Whether the applicant has been subject of any proceedings of a serious 
disciplinary or criminal nature, or has been notified of any such impending 
proceedings or of any investigation which may lead to such proceedings; 
c) Whether the applicant has a record or evidence of previous business conduct and 
activities where the applicant has been convicted for an offence under any 
legislation designed to protect members of the public from financial loss due to 
dishonesty , incompetence or malpractice; 
d) Whether the applicant or any of its promoters or promoter group has indulged in 
insider trading, fraudulent and unfair trade practices or market manipulation; 
e) Whether the applicant has achieved a satisfactory outcome as a result of due 
diligence conducted with the relevant regulator , revenue authorities , 
investigation agencies and credit rating agencies etc., as considered appropriate; 
f) Whether the applicant has a record of any serious financial misconduct , bad 
loans or whether the applicant was adjudged to be bankrupt; 
g) The source of funds for the acquisition; 
h) Where the applicant is a body corporate, its track record or reputation for 
operating in a manner that is consistent with the standards of good corporate 
governance , financial strength and integrity in addition to the assessment of 
individuals and other entities holding more than 1 percent of the capital of the 
body corporate as enumerated above. 
ii. For acquisition in excess of 10 per cent shareholding in the concerned insurer 
6 
~ II aspects as laid down in clause 7 (i) of these Guidelines ;

[Page 7]
b) Sources and stability of funds for acquisition and the ability to access financial 
markets as a source of continuing financial support for the insurer; 
c) The business record and experience of the applicant including any experience in 
acquisition of business; 
d) The extent to which the corporate structure of the applicant will be in consonance 
with effective supervision and regulation of the insurer; 
e) Whether the applicant is a widely held entity , publicly listed and a well­
established regulated financial entity in good standing in the financial 
community; 
f) The acquisition is in public interest; 
g) The acquisition is to secure the proper management of any insurer; 
h) The desirability of diversified ownership of insurer; 
i) Track record of the applicant; 
j) Shareholder agreements and their impact on control and management of the 
insurer. 
Interpretation: 
8. The interpretation of these regulations shall be that of the Chairperson of the Authority, 
whose decisions on all issues shall be binding on all applicants. 
*** 
71 Page 
,-- -
(Nilesh Sathe) 
DA 
111 
Member-Life & 
l}'~n-charge of Finance 
__.J----"

[Page 8]
Annexure-A 
Declaration to be submitted by Private Equity Fund intending to acquire shareholding in an insurer 
Name of the insurer in which acquisition is sought: 
Registration No. 
S. No. Particular Remarks 
I. Information to be submitted by the applicant for acquisition of shares or voting rights 
upto the extent of 10% in the insurer 
1 Name of the applicant (including previous names, if 
any) 
2 SEBI Registration No. 
3 Address of the applicant 
4 Ownership and control status (as per DIPP Guidelines, 
Govt of India and FEMA) 
5 Shareholding pattern if the applicant is an entity 
(applicable in cases of para 4 & 5 of Part-B) 
6 Details of "acquisition" by the applicant and 
"aggregate holding" in the insurer (name, 
shareholding in Rs. (in lakhs) and%) 
7 a) List of "relatives" of the applicant 
b) List of "persons acting in concert" with the 
applicant 
C) List of "associate enterprises" 
Bl Page

[Page 9]
S. No. Particular 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
The list should contain details of name, net worth, 
total assets, credit rating, shareholding (if any) in the 
insurer in Rs. (in lakhs) and % 
Source of funds for acquisition of the shares/ voting 
rights in the insurer (Duly certified by a Chartered 
Accountant) 
Total net worth, profitability and average income of 
the applicant over the last 5 years (Duly certified by a 
Chartered Accountant) 
In case of acquisition of voting rights, the details of 
agreement in brief and consideration paid for such 
agreement, if any 
Has the applicant, or any of the persons listed in 7 
above been adjudged bankrupt at any time 
If the applicant, or any of the persons listed in 7 above 
is a member of a professional association / body, 
details of disciplinary action, if any, pending or 
commenced or resulting in conviction in the past 
against him / her or whether he / she has been 
banned from entry into any profession/ occupation at 
any time 
Has the applicant or any of the persons at 7 above 
been subject to any investigation at the instance of 
any Government department or agency? 
Details of prosecution, if any, pending or commenced 
or resulting in conviction in the past against the 
applicant, or persons listed in 7 above for violation of 
economic laws, tax laws and regulations 
9I Page 
Remarks

[Page 10]
S. No. Particular 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
Details of serious disciplinary or criminal prosecution, 
if any, pending or commenced or resulting in 
conviction in the past against the applicant, or persons 
listed in 7 above 
Has the applicant, or persons listed in 7 above at any 
time been found guilty of violation of rules / 
regulations / legislative requirements by customs / 
excise/ income tax/ foreign exchange/ companies 
act/ other revenue authorities, if so give particulars 
Whether any qualification, reservation or adverse 
remark on the books and accounts and financial 
statements was made by the auditors in their report in 
respect of the applicant and/ or entities listed in para 
7 above, during the past five financial years 
Whether the applicant, or persons listed in 7 above 
has at any time come to the adverse notice of any 
regulator/ revenue authorities/ investigative agency 
including issuance of Show Cause Notice. (Though it 
shall not be necessary for an applicant to mention in 
the column about orders and findings made by 
regulators which have been later on reversed / set 
aside in toto, it would be necessary to make a mention 
of the same, in case the reversal/ setting aside is on 
technical reasons like limitation or lack of jurisdiction, 
etc., and not on merit. If the order of the regulator is 
temporarily stayed and the appellate / court 
proceedings are pending, the same also should be 
mentioned). 
Whether the applicant, or persons listed in 7 above 
has been convicted for any offence under any 
10 I Page 
Remarks

[Page 11]
S. No. Particular Remarks 
legislation designed to protect members of the public 
from financial loss due to dishonesty, incompetence 
or malpractice. 
20 Whether any other person has beneficial interest in 
the proposed acquisition (if applicable) 
21 Details of shareholding/ voting rights of the applicant 
in other insurers and other institutions in the financial 
sector 
22 If the applicant is a regulated entity, names and 
addresses of the regulators of the applicant in India 
and abroad 
23 Whether any regulatory action has been taken against 
the applicant or persons listed in 7 above, in any other 
country 
24 Details of the applicant and persons / entities at 7 
above regarding - date of birth / incorporation , 
Registered Office address, nature of business activity, 
PAN no., TAN No., CIN No. / DIN No., income tax circle, 
name of the regulator, type of registration with SEBI, 
bank , branch and account number (including credit 
facilities and non-fund based facilities), net worth, 
total assets. (May be given in a separate annexure). 
II. Additional information to be submitted by the applicants intending to acquire share~ 
or voting rights to the extent of more than 10 % in the insurer 
25 Details of capital raised by the applicant during the 
past 5 years 
26 Details of serious disciplinary or criminal prosecution, 
if any, pending or commenced or resulting in 
HI Page

[Page 12]
S. No. Particular Remarks 
conviction in the past against the applicant, or parties 
or entities listed in 7 above 
27 Whether the applicant intends to have a Board 
representation in the Insurer 
28 Details of representation of the applicant on the 
Boards of other insurers and other institutions in the 
financial sector 
29 The business record and experience of the applicant 
including any experience of acquisition of companies 
/ business 
30 Reasons for acquiring a stake or voting rights in the 
insurer 
31 Any other explanation/ information in regard to items 
above considered relevant for judging "fit and proper" 
status of the entities listed in 7 above 
Undertaking 
I confirm that the above information is to the best of my knowledge and belief, true and 
complete. I undertake to keep the insurer and the Authority fully informed, as soon as 
possible, of all events which take place subsequent to submission of this declaration which 
are relevant to the information provided above. 
Place: 
Date: 
12 I Page 
Signature of the Authorized Signatory 
with common seal, if any
