[Page 1]
INSURANCE REGULATORY AND DEVELOPMENT 
AUTHORITY OF INDIA 
GUIDANCE NOTE 
PREPRATATION OF INVESTMENT RETURNS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ver 02 
AUGUST, 2016 
 
 
The Authority, to bring consistency in the “data” filed through electronic submission, had prepared 
“Guidance Note on Preparation of Investment Returns”. While due care had been taken to prepare this 
Guidance Note, users can point out through Life or General Insurance Council any inconsistency , to be 
addressed in the subsequent versions 
• 
ildai

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 31 
 
FORM 1 – STATEMENT OF INVESTMENT AND INCOME ON INVESTMENT 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
To ascertain return on investment assets, insurers shall file FORM-1 listing Category of Investment wise 
(as per Investments - Master Circular on Category of Investments) income and yield on such investment 
at gross and net basis . The Form shall be prepared in respect of each fund. In case of ULIP s, FORM 1 
shall be prepared at Segregated Fund ( SFIN) level and also at consolidated level. The Income on 
Investments shown in FORM1 shall reconcile with Revenue and Profit & Loss Account figures  
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
a. COI (Category of Investments)  
 
Category of investment shall be as per Investments - Master Circular on Category of Investments  – 
Annexure - 1  
 
b. Cat Code (Category Code)  
 
Category Code shall be as prescribed in Investments - Master Circular on Category of Investments  – 
Annexure - 1   
 
 DETAILS PERTAINING TO THE CURRENT QUARTER  
 
c. Investments  
 
The insurer shall state the Simple Average of investments for (Non -ULIP and General Insurer including 
an insurer carrying on business of re -insurance or health insurance) the quarter at their Book Value and 
for ULIP Business at the value of Investment Assets taken for computing NAV. The simp le average 
investments shall be calculated based on daily closing balance. In case where any security has been 
reclassified (when the Security is moved from Approved to Other Investment Category or vice versa) to 
another category then the simple average ba lance shall be shown under the first category till the time 
such investment was classified under that category and for the balance period in the reclassified 
category.  
 
NOTE:   
 
Simple average of investments shall be the sum of daily closing balance of Investments divided by the 
number of day(s) such investments are outstanding. The net investment current assets of linked funds 
shall be reported as at the period end in the Current quarter and Year to Date column.  
 
d. Income on Investment

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 31 
 
 
For non -ULIP funds and General Insurer including an insurer carrying on business of re -insurance or 
health insurance, Income on Investments will include , income taken to Revenue Account & Profit an d 
Loss account (Interest, profit / (loss) on sale, accretion of discount, amortization of premium, dividend 
earned during the quarter) and taken to financial statements pertaining to all the securities held under 
that category during that quarter.  
 
In case of ULIP funds, any incremental un-realized gains / (loss) arisen for the period on investment shall 
be included. In case where any security has been reclassified to another category then income shall be 
shown under the first category till the time such i nvestment was classified under that category and for 
the balance period in the reclassified category. Income earned on lending securities under SLB shall be 
shown in the CAT code of underlying security.    
 
Further, Year to Date Income on investment shall be reconciled with figures in Revenue accou nt and 
Profit and Loss Account. Provisions on Assets, if any, as per regulations, shall be reduced from Income 
shown in FORM 1 
 
e. Gross yield  
 
The gross yield  shall be computed by dividi ng the income on Investment for the quarter by the simple 
daily average investments outstanding for number of days for the quarter 
 
f. Net Yield  
 
The net yield shall be computed by giving the effect of tax rate to the gross yield.   
 
1. DETAILS PERTAINING TO THE INCOME AND YIELD FOR YEAR TO DATE  
 
Under the head “Year to Date”, details of Investments, Income, Gross Yield and Net Yield shall be shown 
for the period April to the end of the quarter for which details are being furnished. For example for the 
quarter ended June, the details from April to June shall be provided and for the quarter ended 
September, the details pertaining to April to September shall be provided.  
 
2. DETAILS PERTAINING TO THE INCOME AND YIELD FOR PREVIOUS YEAR   
 
Under the head “Year to Date”, details of Investments, Income, Gross Yield and Net Yield for the 
corresponding period of the previous year are to be shown.

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 31 
 
FORM 2 – STATEMENT OF DOWNGRADED INVESTMENTS 
(PART – A) 
 
OBJECTIVE   
 
In order to establish the movement of securities from one category to another especially the movement 
from Approved Investments to Other Investments on account of rating downgrades/upgrades on the 
reporting date, all insurers are required file FORM 2 , list ing various instruments which have been 
downgraded from its rating at the time of the purchase (original rating).    
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
The details of all the downgraded debt securities during the quarter shall be given under ‘current 
quarter’ and al l downgraded securities shall be shown under “As on date”. 'Investments currently 
upgraded to the original grade or above, listed as Down Graded during earlier Quarter shall be deleted 
from the Cumulative listing.  
 
a. COI (Category of Investments)  
 
Insurers are required to pick up the corresponding Category of Investment (COI) for every downgraded 
security, reposition the same at the appropriate COI as prescribed in the regulation.  
 
b. Amount  
 
The Book Value (as defined in FORM 3 PART- A of Guidance Note on Preparation of Investment Returns) 
shall be stated in this column.   
 
c. Date of purchase  
 
In this column, the insurer shall state the date of purchase of that security. In case there are multiple 
purchases then the date on which the earliest purchase was made shall be stated.  
 
d. Rating Agency  
 
In this column, the insurer shall state the name of the rating agency as prescribed in the regulation. If an 
instrument is rated by more than one rating agency, the lowest rating must be us ed as a matter of 
conservatism. 
 
e. Original Grade  
 
Original grade is the rating at the time of purchase of the instrument.

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 31 
 
f. Current Grade  
 
Current grade is the rating for the instrument as at the last day of the quarter.  
 
g. Date of Downgrade  
 
Further the Insurer shall state the date of downgrade along with remarks, if any. In case of any 
downgrade of security resulting in securities being reclassified as “Other Investment”, in Pension and 
General Annuity fund, the same shall be specifically disclosed in the Returns.

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 31 
 
FORM 2 – INVESTMENT ASSETS – RATING PROFILE 
(PART – B) 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
To assess the credit quality of the Investment portfolio, Insurers are required to file FORM 2. This form 
needs to be linked to FORM 3A/ 3B . Equity or Equity Related Instruments and other than Debt 
Instruments Portfolio are also reported in FORM 2 , for the purpose of linking the total portfolio to 
FORM 3A / 3B 
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
1. FORM - 2 shall be prepared in respect of each fund/investment assets. In case of ULIP FORM 2 shall 
be prepared at Segregated Fund (SFIN) level and also at consolidated level.  
 
2. For the purpose of asset classification in various rating classes, the following points may be noted:  
 
a. Debt investments which are capable of being rated and are not rated shall be shown under 
"Unrated"  
b. In case of loans in housing sector, infrastructure sector, secured loans appearing in approved 
investment and unsecured loans appearing in ‘Other investments’ amount shall appear in 
unrated column of the FORM 2(PART B) 
c. All loans, excluding policy loans, shall form part of Other Investments 
d. Reverse Repo with underlying corporate bond, Investment in Mutual Funds including Promoter 
Group Mutual Funds, Bank FDs, Net investment current assets, Venture funds, immovable 
property and any other non -debt investments as permitted under the regulations, shall be 
shown under “Equity and Other Instruments”   
e. In case of Reverse Repo with underlying Government securities  & CBLO the same shall be 
classified under 'AAA' or Equivalent  
f. Non-Performing investments assets will be shown separately irrespective of rating  
 
3. Book value of the Investments shall be provided. The figures in Col (i) must match with FORM 3A/B   
 
4. Percentage to Investment Assets shall be computed, in the case of Non -ULIP funds and General 
Insurer including an insurer carrying on business of re -insurance or health insurance by dividing the 
Book value of investments in various rating cla ss by the total Book value of Investment assets held 
and in the case of ULIP funds, by dividing the Market Value of investments in various rating class by 
the total Market Value of Investment assets held

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 31 
 
5. Other investments in housing and infrastructure should be disclosed under ‘Other Investments’

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 31 
 
FORM 2 - INVESTMENT ASSETS & INFRA INVESTMENTS - RATING PROFILE 
(PART – C) 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
To assess the amount of infrastructure investments in life funds, Insurers are required to file FORM 2C. 
Section 1 of this s form needs to be linked to FORM 3A / 3B .  Section 2 of the Form would contain the 
details of Investments in Infrastructure sector only.  Investments in housing sector would not be part of 
it.  
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
1. FORM – 2C shall be prepared in respect of life fund only and General Insurer including an insurer 
carrying on business of re-insurance or health insurance.  
2. The figures under investment assets category must reconcile with FORM 3A / FORM 3B  
3. The figures under the infrastructure category must reconcile with FORM 5

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 31 
 
FORM 3A – STATEMENT OF INVESTMENT ASSETS 
(PART – A) 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
The Insurer shall file FORM 3A (PART A)  for compliance of fund wise Pattern of Investments showing 
Investment assets and other assets and linking the same with Balance Sheet figures.   
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
1. FORM 3A (Part-A) has two Sections  
 
SECTION-I 
 
Section I provides link to Investment assets reported in the Balance Sheet with that as reported in FORM 
3A (PART A). The investment assets which are subject to pattern of investments, under each fund of the 
Life Insurer as required under Regulation 3, and shown under “funds available for investments”  
 
a. Funds available for Investment  
 
To arrive at the “funds available for investments”, the amounts appearing in the non investment 
schedules and non investment line items appearing in Balance Sheet under Appli cation of Funds, are 
deducted. Similarly any non -investment items, deducted from Balance Sheet, shown under Application 
of Funds, shall be added back in the reconciliation to arrive at the “funds available for investments”. If 
any Insurer is carrying Loans  as a part of investments, then the same shall not be deducted from the 
application of the funds.    
 
The balance so arrived as “funds available for investments” shall tally with the sum of the values shown 
in the “Total Fund” column of all the three funds in FORM 3A (PART A) which shall reconcile with figures 
shown in schedule 8, 8A, 8B & 9.  
 
Application Money for investments under ‘non linked funds’ shall form part of the Schedule 12 and the 
same shall not form part of the Schedule 8, 8A, &  9. It shall not form part of the investment assets till 
the allotment is complete. In case of ‘Linked portfolios’ the same shall form part of ‘Net Current assets’ 
till the allotment is complete.  Also, it shall be reported under Schedule 8B. If investment  application 
money is paid through ASBA Fixed Deposit instead of cash, the same shall be treated as application 
money (current Assets) and the lien shall be properly disclosed in Form 6 as a note.  
 
SECTION-II   
 
Section II requires the insurer to report the fund wise, pattern of investments as prescribed under

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 31 
 
Regulation 4, 5 and 6 of the IRDAI (Investment) Regulations 2016 as amended from time to time.   
 
Separate Custodian account shall be maintained for “balanc e” investments of Shareholder’s fund that 
does not form part of the FRSM (except in case of Securities held with RBI/ CCIL). Shareholders’ funds  
held beyond the solvency requirements shall not be subject to Pattern of Investments prescribed under 
Regulation 4, 5 and 6 and shall be subject to Prudential / Exposure norms prescribed under Regulation 
9, provided the same are maintained in a separate custody account.  
 
a. Category of Investments  
 
Investments shall be categorized as per the Regulation or circular issued there under, such as Central 
Government Securities, State Government Securities, Other Approved Securities, Housing and 
Infrastructure, Approved Investments and Other Investments.   
 
b. % as per Regulation  
 
This specifies the minimum or maximum % of i nvestments under each category of investments as 
prescribed in Regulation for various funds.  
 
c. Shareholder’s and Policyholder’s fund  
 
All the insurers shall maintain portfolios of SH - FRSM, SH BALANCE (other than fund representing 
solvency margin), UL non-unit reserves, Par and Non par. The insurer shall maintain sub portfolios under 
these broad portfolios on the basis of various line of business. The Pattern of Investment, with respect 
to Life Fund, shall be complied with respect to the total of Life fund (both shareholder fund representing 
solvency and Policyholder funds taken together). It may be noted that the pattern of Investment will not 
apply to Shareholders funds in excess of solvency requirement, held in a separate custody account. But 
exposure norms of ‘Investee’ company, ‘Group’, and ‘industry sector’ will apply to both shareholders 
and policyholders funds. 
 
d. Book Value (SH+PH)  
 
In case of ULIP Net asset value including net current assets shall be considered for pattern of 
investments. Net curre nt assets shall be considered as ‘approved investment’ for this purpose. All the 
securities (both Equity and Debt) shall be marked to market.  
 
In case of ‘Non -Linked’ funds, cost plus amortization value of the debt securities and acquisition cost in 
case of Equity, mutual fund and investment property and other than Debt investments will be 
considered for pattern of investments. Net current Assets shall not be considered for calculation of 
Pattern of Investments for non linked portfolio.

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 31 
 
e. Actual %  
 
The actual % of the each category of investments under Non -linked portfolios shall be calculated as a % 
to the total book value of investment assets in the fund. The amounts in the column (f) shall be used for 
calculating the Exposure %.  
 
In case of the U LIP, the actual % of each category are calculated as a % to the ‘market value’ of the 
assets of the funds including ‘net current assets’ that is considered for NAV calculation.  
 
f. Fair Value Change (FVC) Amount  
 
The insurer shall compute the fair value for  equities and units of mutual fund. The difference between 
the fair value and the book value is the Fair Value Change (FVC) and the same shall be disclosed in the 
column provided for.   
 
g. Total Fund  
 
The amount after adding the fair value amount to the boo k value shall be shown under Total Fund 
Column. The Grand total under this column shall reconcile with the ‘Balance Sheet’ value of investments 
assets shown in Section I    
 
h. Market Value  
 
The market value of the securities classified under the various cat egories of investments shall be shown 
under Market Value column. In the case of Equity, the Market Value shall be as per regulation, as 
amended from time to time. 
 
NOTE  
 
a. In case of Life Fund, Pattern of Investment is applicable for Share holder fund repre senting solvency 
margin and Policyholder funds. Shareholder fund beyond solvency margin is not subject to pattern of 
investment.  
b. In FORM 3A PART A , the equation provided under 'Book Value (SH+PH) shall be read as '(f) =  
[b+c+d+e],   
c. “Other Investments” made from all Categories of Investment including housing and infrastructure 
category shall not exceed 15% of investment assets of Life fund.  
d. All the investment assets such as Fixed Deposits, shall form part of the Schedule, 8, 8A, 8B or 9 with a 
note in the respective forms.   
e. Non-investment assets of the non-linked funds shall be shown in the respective schedules other than 
8, 8A & 9

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 31 
 
f. Net Current Assets of the Linked portfolios shall be shown as a separate line item in the Schedule 8B

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 31 
 
FORM 3A – STATEMENT OF INVESTMENT ASSETS 
(PART – B) 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
The objective of the form is for compliance to the pattern of Investment under Reg. at the Segregated 
Fund level of ULIP fund. This Form is linked to the item C of FORM 3A (PART-A).   
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
Fund 1 to Fund `n`  
 
Details about each Segregated Fund of ULIP and its total shall be provided in this form. The number of 
funds shall be the funds as approved by the File & Use of IRDAI.  
 
i. FORM 3A (Part-B) has two sections  
 
SECTION-I 
 
This section shows the movement of funds from the previous  quarter to the reporting quarter on 
account of  the inflow /outflow in the  policyholders funds and increase/decrease in the value of 
investments during the quarter.   
 
a. Opening Balance (Market Value)  
 
The closing fund values i.e. total Assets under Management (AUM) (at the segregated ULIP fund level) at 
the end of the previous quarter shall be brought forward as opening balance of the linked portfolio(s).  
 
b. Inflow during the quarter  
 
Inflow (a positive figure) will represent the funds brought in for creation of units in each of the Fund(s).   
 
c. Outflow During the quarter  
 
Outflow (a negative figure) during the quarter shall represent the redemption of units for surrender, 
claims, charges etc.  
 
d. Increase / (Decrease) value of Investments  
 
Increase / (decrease) in the value of investments shall include the realized, unrealized gains/losses and 
other Investment income that has accrued to the individual fund during the reporting quarter  
 
e. Total Investible Funds (Market Value)

[Page 14]
Page 14 of 31 
 
Opening Balance (Market Value) + inflow during the quarter + net Increase / (Decrease) in the value of 
Investments – outflow during the quarter of all funds taken together. In the case of Equity, the Market 
Value shall be, as per regulations, as amended from time to time. 
 
SECTION-II  
 
INVESTMENT OF UNIT FUND  
 
All the Investments under the ULIP each Segregated Fund(s) shall be shown under two heads namely 
Approved and Other Investments.   
 
Under the Approved Investment Category, the investments shall be further divided into Central Govt.  
Securities, State Govt Securities, Other Approved Securities, Corporate Bonds, Infrastructure Bonds, 
Equity, Money Market investments, Mutual funds, Deposi t with Banks. ‘Net current assets’ shall be 
classified as ‘Approved Investment’ and its breakup shall be provided as prescribed in the format.  
 
Under the Other Investment Category, the investments shall be further divided into between Corporate 
Bonds, Infrastructure Bonds, Equity, Mutual funds, and any other investments which can be readily 
realizable and marketable. No investment shall be made in  the securities which cannot be marked to 
market on daily basis. Total funds i.e. aggregate of Approved and Other Investments shall reconcile with 
the Total investible funds as shown in the Section 1 of the FORM 3A (PART B) 
 
NOTE  
 
a. The aggregate of all the above Segregated Unit-Funds should tally with item C of FORM 3A (PART A), 
for both Par & Non Par Business  
b. The details of Item 12 of FORM LB 2 which form part of IRDA (Actuarial Report) Regulation, 2000 
shall be reconciled with FORM 3A (PART B). LB2 being an annual form the reconciliation would be 
done only at year end.  
c. Other Investments' are as permitted under regulations, as amended from time to time. 
d. Market value of the securities considered for NAV calculation shall be taken for the purpose of 
applicability of Pattern of Investments for ULIP  
e. All the assets of linked funds at the segregated level including net current assets shall be considered 
in the denominator for limit monitoring

[Page 15]
Page 15 of 31 
 
FORM 3A – STATEMENT OF INVESTMENT ASSETS 
(PART - C) 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
The objective of the form is to compare the performance of funds at various periods. Further the form 
establishes the consistency of NAV considered for accounting and that reported in Actuarial Statement 
LB2 are the same. Also the form provides the periodi cal investment returns of fund(s). This Form is 
linked to the FORM 3A (PART B).  
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
a. Name of the Segregated fund  
 
Details about each segregated fund of linked fund shall be provided in this column.  
 
b. SFIN  
 
SFIN for each of the segregated fund shall be provided.  
 
c. Date of Launch  
 
The date of the first unit allotted under the fund needs to be stated against each segregated fund.  
 
d. Par/Non Par  
 
Details about the fund whether it is Par/Non Par to be provided  
 
e. Assets Under Management  on the above date  
 
The total should be equivalent to the Assets under Management (AUM) of the segregated fund as 
provided in FORM 3A PART B.  
 
f. NAV as per LB 2  
 
NAV as per FORM LB2, (Regulation 4 of IRDA (Actuarial Report and Abs tract) Regulations 2000 shall be 
provided in the column. LB2 being an annual form, the NAV as per LB2 would equal the published NAV 
on a quarterly basis.  
 
g. NAV as on the above date  
 
The NAV on the last day of the quarter shall be provided for calculating the return.

[Page 16]
Page 16 of 31 
 
h. NAV of previous quarters  
 
NAV from previous quarter upto the 4th previous quarter shall be provided. For example for the quarter 
ended June 2012, the NAV on March 31, 2 012 shall be provided in Previous Qtr NAV column, the NAV 
on December 31, 2011 shall be provided in 2nd Previous Qtr NAV column, the NAV on September 30,  
2011 shall be provided in 3rd Previous Qtr NAV column and the NAV on June 30, 2011 shall be provided 
in 4rd Previous Qtr NAV column.   
 
i. Return  
 
The absolute yield should be computed for one year return based on NAV movement. Absolute return/ 
yield = Current quarter NAV/ 4 th Previous Qtr NAV -1. In case the fund inception data is later than 4 th 
previous quarter NAV date the same must be reported as NA (Not Applicable).   
 
j. 3 Year rolling CAGR  
 
The formulae for 3 year CAGR is = ((X/Y) ^ (1/3))-1   
X = NAV as provided in the as on above date column  
Y = NAV of the corresponding date of the 3rd previous year  
 
In case the fund inception data is later than three years from as on above date of the Form the same 
must be reported as NA (not applicable).  
 
k. Highest NAV since inception  
 
Highest NAV of each fund since inception should be provided.   
 
l. NAV upto 4 decimals to be given at all places

[Page 17]
Page 17 of 31 
 
FORM 3A – STATEMENT OF INVESTMENT ASSETS 
(PART - D) 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
All insurers are required to file FORM 3A (Part – D) to provide the details of investments made under 
various funds (Life, Pension and Linked) of the Life Insurer during the quarter. The Form should be 
prepared separately for each fund and in aggregate for all segregated linked funds. The form is intended 
to bring out the accretion to the insurers investments (fund wise) while complying with the fund wise 
pattern of Investment.   
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
a. Opening balance  
 
The value of investments of the previous quarter as disclosed under FORM 3A (Part A) shall be reported 
in the column.   
 
b. % to Total   
 
The opening balance of prescribed category of investments under various funds divided by total value of 
investments of the fund expressed as a percentage.  
 
c. Net Accretion for the Qtr.  
 
Net increase/ (decrease) in the category of investments during the quarter.  
 
d. Total   
 
Opening balance of the category of investments plus net accretion during the quarter must be shown in 
the column. The summation of the column for the various funds should tally with book value figures 
shown in FORM 3A (PART A).

[Page 18]
Page 18 of 31 
 
FORM 3A – STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS 
(PART - E) 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
All insurers are required to file FORM 3A (Part – E) to provide the details of investments made under 
unit linked funds (at a segregated fund level) of the Life Insurer during the quarter. The Form should be 
prepared separately for each fund and in aggregate for all segregated linked funds. The form is intended 
to bring out the reconciliation of Investment details of ULIP products (UIN) to segregated funds (SFIN)  
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
a. This form is to be prepared for all ULIP products at UIN level. UIN approved by IRDAI  
b. Premium  
It represents premium income (including first year premium, renewal premium, Top up premium 
and Single premium) received during the quarter for each UIN  
c. Others – need to specify type of inflow, other than premium income, which flows into policy fund.  
d. Outflow  
Details of all charges, policyholders’ payouts including claims, surrender, partial withdrawal, and any 
other outflows (need to specify), which gets deducted either from premium inflow or policy fund (by 
way of policyholders’ payout or charges) during the quarter.  
e. The above information will flow from policy admin system at UIN level  
f. Policy funds  
Net inflow or outflow as computed above will flow into or flow out of segregated policy fund (at 
SFIN level) during the quarter. This information will reconcile with change in unit capital and 
premium reserve at SFIN level in the Investment management system  
g. Difference between net inflows/outflows as per UIN level and Net inflows/outflows as per SFIN level 
must be “nil”  
h. Total of Net Inflows as per FORM 3A PART E should match with Total of Net Inflows as per FORM 3A 
PART B

[Page 19]
Page 19 of 31 
 
FORM 3B – STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS 
(PART - A) 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
The Insurer shall file FORM 3B (Part A) for compliance of Pattern of Investments showing Investment 
assets and other assets and linking the same with Balance Sheet figures  
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
a. FORM 3B has two sections:   
 
Section I  
 
Section I requires the insurer to establish linkage with the details of investment as shown in the Balance 
Sheet and the investment returns. The Insurer shall furnish the figures as appearing in Schedule 8 to 15 
and the debit balance in Profit & Loss Account. Further, all the items pertaining to investments disclosed 
in the investment returns (FORM 5) which do not form part of schedule 8 need to be shown in the “less” 
items of this section. The Investment assets as a ppearing in section I shall be reconciled with the 
investment assets shown under the head “Total Fund” in section II.  
 
Section II  
 
In Section II, the insurer is required to comply with the pattern of investments as prescribed under 
Regulation 7 of the IRDAI (Investment) Regulations 2016 as amended from time to time. Separate 
Custodian account shall be maintained for “balance” investments of Shareholder’s fund that does not 
form part of the FRSM (except in case of Securities held with RBI/ CCIL). Shareho lders’ funds held 
beyond the solvency requirements shall not be subject to Pattern of Investments prescribed under 
Regulation 7 (provided such assets are kept in a separate custody account) but shall be subject to 
Prudential / Exposure norms prescribed und er Regulation 9, provided the same are maintained in a 
separate custody account.  
 
b. Category of Investments  
 
Investments shall be categorized as per the Regulation, such as Central Government Securities, State 
Government Securities, Other Approved Securiti es, Housing and Infrastructure, Approved Investments 
and Other Investments.   
 
c. % as per Regulation  
 
This specifies the minimum or maximum % of investments under each category of investments as

[Page 20]
Page 20 of 31 
 
prescribed in Regulation for various funds.  
 
d. Shareholders’ Fund (SH) and Policyholders’ Fund  
 
All the insurers shall maintain portfolios of SH BALANCE (other than fund representing solvency margin) 
and /or assets representing Solvency Margin. The Pattern of Investment shall be complied with funds 
representing solve ncy margin (both shareholder fund representing solvency and Policyholder funds 
taken together. It may be noted that the pattern of Investment will not apply to Shareholders funds in 
excess of solvency requirement, held in a separate custody account. But ex posure norms of ‘Investee’, 
‘company’, ‘Group’ and ‘industry sector’ will apply to both shareholders and policyholders funds. 
 
Any amount shown under the head “Balance” shall clearly identified (security wise) in a separate 
custody account.   
 
e. Book Value (SH + PH)  
 
Investment assets allocated under SH and PH shall be shown at Book value i.e. all the debt securities 
shall be at historical cost subject to amortization. Units of Mutual Fund and equity and equity related 
instruments shall be shown at cost of a cquisition. In the investment returns, column d would be sum of 
column b and column c. 
 
f. % Actual  
 
The insurer shall work out the percentage of holding in G Sec, G Sec or Other Approved Securities 
(including Govt. Securities), Housing & Loans to State Gove rnment for Firefighting equipments; 
Infrastructure Investments, Approved investments and Other Investments with respect to Total 
Investment asset.  
 
g. FVC Amount  
 
The insurer shall compute the fair value for holding in equities and for units of mutual fund. The 
difference between the fair value and the book value is the Fair Value Change (FVC).   
 
h. Total  
 
This is the sum of Balance of Shareholders Fund, FRSM, Policy holders funds and FVC amount. The grand 
total under this column should tally with the investments assets shown in section I.  
 
i. Market Value  
 
The market value all the securities shall be shown, Category code wise as provided in the Guidelines

[Page 21]
Page 21 of 31 
 
issued. In the case of Equity, the Market Value shall be the lower of BSE / NSE prices  
 
NOTE  
 
a. “Other Investments” made from all categories of Investment including Housing and Infrastructure 
sectors shall not exceed 25% of the total investment assets.  
b. All investment assets such as Fixed Deposit, Section 7 deposit should form part of Schedule 8 in the 
Balance Sheet

[Page 22]
Page 22 of 31 
 
FORM 3B – STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS 
(PART - B) 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
All insurers are required to file FORM 3B (Part – B) to provide the details of investments during the 
quarter. The form is intended to bring out the accretion to the Insurer’s investments while complying 
with the pattern of Investment.  
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
a. Opening balance  
 
The closing book value of investments of the previous quarter as disclosed under FORM 3B (Part A) shall 
be reported in the column.   
 
b. % to Opening Balance   
 
The opening balance of prescribed category of investments under various funds divided by total book 
value of investments of the fund expressed as a percentage.  
 
c. Net Accretion for the Qtr.  
 
Net increase/ (decrease) in the category of investments during th e quarter is the difference between 
the opening balance and the closing balance during the quarter.  
 
d. Total   
 
Opening balance of the pattern of investment assets plus net accretion during the quarter must be 
shown in the column. The summation of the colum n for the various funds should tally with book value 
figures shown in FORM 3B (PART A).

[Page 23]
Page 23 of 31 
 
FORM 4A – EXPOSURE NORMS COMPLIANCE 
(PART A, B, C & D) 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
In order to establish compliance with prudential and exposure norms as prescribed in Regulation 9 and 
other circulars issued by the Authority from time to time, all insurers are required to file FORM 4A 
(PART A, B, C & D).  Norms for exposure to Investee Co mpany, Investee Company Group and Industrial 
Sector have been laid down in Regulation 9 of the IRDAI (Investment) Regulation, 2016 as amended 
from time to time. FORM 4A (PART A) requires exception reporting and hence only deviations from the 
prescribed regulations are required to be reported. FORM 4A (Part B) shall be prepared for Promoter 
Group, FORM 4A (PART C) shall be prepared for Non Promoter Group and Part D  be prepared for each 
Industry Sector. FORM 4A (PART A, B, C & D)  shall be prepared for Life, Pension & General Annuity and 
for ULIP at Segregated Funds [SFIN] level.   
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
In Part A of FORM 4A  
 
The insurer is required to submit only the instances of deviation where there is non -compliance with 
investee company norms as prescribed in Regulation.  
 
a. Investee Company  
 
The insurer shall state the full name of the Investee Company.  
 
b. Eligibility limit as per Regulation   
 
The insurer shall state the limit in terms of amount for equity and debt. The maximum amount (Eligible 
limit) for investment in equity, preference shares and convertible debentures shall be the lower of 
amount computed as per percentage (prescribed under Regulation 9 of IRDAI (Investment) Regulations, 
2016 as amended from time to time) of (1) investee company’s outstanding shares or (2) insurers 
investment assets/ funds.  
 
In case of debt, loans and other investments t he limit shall be the lower of amount computed as per 
percentage (prescribed under Regulation 9 of IRDAI (Investment) Regulations, 2016 as amended from 
time to time) of (1) Paid -up share capital, free reserves and Debentures / Bonds or (2) insurers 
investment assets/ funds.  
 
Outstanding shares do not include the preference shares. Investments in preference shares, Convertible 
debentures / bonds shall be as per Regulation 9 of IRDAI (Investment) Regulations, 2016 as amended

[Page 24]
Page 24 of 31 
 
from time to time. Further, the t otal exposure to any company (equity, debt and all other investments 
taken together) shall be capped as prescribed in the regulations. The insurer shall endeavor to obtain 
the latest available details.   
 
c. Actual Investment  
 
In this column the insurer shal l show, Investee Company wise, the actual investments at Book Value. 
The insurer shall show equity investments and debt investments separately.   
 
d. Deviation Amount  
 
The deviation amount is the difference between the eligible investment amount and the actu al 
investment made by the insurer. The deviations shall be given separately for equity and debt 
investments. The insurer shall report only those cases where there are deviations.  
 
In Part B of FORM 4A  
 
a. Serial No. 
 
b. Name of the Promoter Group Company 
 
The insurer shall identify Investee Company with the promoter group to whi ch Investee Company 
belongs to. The insurer shall follow the “Group” definition consistently as prescribed in the Investment 
Regulation  
 
c. Eligible limit of the Promoter Group as per Regulation 
 
The maximum investments in any company belonging to the Insurer’s promoter Group shall be the 
percentage (as prescribed in the Regulations) computed on investment assets at aggregate level.  
 
d. Actual Investments  
 
In this column the insurer shall sh ow, Investee Company Group wise, the actual investments at Book 
value 
 
e. Actual Investments (cumulative) 
 
The exposure should be on the Book Value basis for all non-linked funds and on Market  Value basis for 
all ULIP Funds 
 
f. Deviation  
 
The deviation amount is the difference between the eligible investment limit as shown in column ‘d’ and

[Page 25]
Page 25 of 31 
 
the actual investment as shown in column ‘e’.  
 
In Part C of FORM 4A  
 
a. Name of the Group  
 
The insurer shall identify every investee company with the group to which Investee Company belongs 
to. The insurer shall follow the “Group” definition consistently as prescribed in the Investment 
Regulation.   
 
b. Eligible limit of the Promoter Group as per Regulation 
 
The maximum investments in the investee company belonging to the Group Company as defined in the 
Investment Regulation. Shall be the percentage (as prescribed in the Regulations) computed on 
investment asset/ fund. In the case of ULIP funds, the limit shall be applicable both at Segregated Fund 
level and at aggregate level.  
 
c. Actual Investments  
 
In this column the insurer shall show, Investee Company group wise, the actual investments at Book 
value. The Total of Actual Investments should reconcile with Total Investment Assets as per FORM 3A  at 
Book Value for Non Linked Funds and on Market Value for Unit linked Funds. 
 
For the purpose of matching with FORM 3A , the details of Investments which are not part of Group 
Exposure as per regulation to be provided by way of separate line items . In specific, the G Sec, Other 
Approved Se curities, CBLO, Investment Property, Net Current Assets  (for Unit Linked Funds) shall be 
shown as line items 
 
d. Deviation  
 
The deviation amount is the difference between the eligible investment limit as shown in column ‘c’ and 
the actual investment as shown in column ‘d’.   
 
e. % deviation  
 
The insurer shall show the deviation as a % to investment assets/controlled fund/ULIP fund size.  
 
In Part D of FORM 4A  
 
a. Name of the Industry   
 
The insurer shall state the name of industrial sector. The classification of any investee company into any

[Page 26]
Page 26 of 31 
 
industry sector shall be classified on the lines of National Industrial Classification (All Economic 
Activities) – 2008 (NIC) for all sectors, except infrastructure sector. Exposure shall be calculated at 
Division level from A to R. For Financial and Insur ance Activities sector, exposure shall be at Sectional 
level. In case an investee company is capable of being classified under more than one classification, then 
the insurer shall classify such that it reflects same in such a way the broad business of the investee 
company and shall consistently classify the same under the industrial sector in future.   
 
b. Actual investments  
 
The insurer shall state the total investments made in that industrial sector at Book value.  The Total of 
Actual Investments should reconcile with Total Investment Assets as per FORM 3A at Book Value for 
Non Linked Funds and on Market Value for Unit linked Funds. 
 
For the purpose of matching with Form 3 A, the details of Investments which are n ot part of Industry 
Exposure as per regulations, to be provided by way of separate line items like G Sec, SDL, Other 
Approved Securities, Infrastructure, CBL O, FD & CD, Mutual Funds, N et Current Assets (for Unit Linked 
Funds) etc.  
 
c. Deviation  
 
The deviation amount is the difference between the eligible investment limit as shown in column ‘c’ and 
the actual investment as shown in column ‘d’ 
 
d. % deviation  
 
The insurer shall show the deviation as a % to investment assets/controlled fund/ULIP fund size.  
 
Lastly, the insurer shall state the % deviation from the limit prescribed under Regulation 9 of the IRDA I 
(Investment) Regulation 2016 as amended from time to time. 
 
Industry sector norms shall not apply for investments made in ‘Infrastructure’ sector as d efined under 
Regulation 2(h) of IRDA (Registration of Indian Insurance Companies) Regulations, 2000 as amended 
from time to time.

[Page 27]
Page 27 of 31 
 
FORM 5 – STATEMENT OF INVESTMENT RECONCILIATION 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
In order to understand the movement of instruments as a result of Purchase and Sale of Investments 
during the Quarter and in order to link the same [FORM -5 shall be prepared in respect of each fund. In 
case of ULIP Form 5 shall be prepared at Segregated Fund (SFIN) level and also at consolidated level and 
Total Investments in the case of General Insurer including an insurer carrying on business of re -
insurance or health insurance ] with FORM -3A (Part A) / FORM -3B filed for each Quarter this report is 
presented. Listing of various investments made based as per Investments – Master Circular  
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
The statement shall be prepared as per major categories  mentioned under IRDAI (Investment) 
Regulations, 2016 amended from time to time and as applicable to Life Insurers, General Insurer 
including an insurer carrying on business of re-insurance or health insurance namely;  
 
1. Central Government Securities  
2. State Government Securities or Other Approved Securities  
3. Housing and Loans to State Government for Housing and Fire Fighting Equipments 
4. Infrastructure Investments  
5. Approved Investments  
6. Other Investments  
 
NOTE  
 
For all securities, falling under the above heads, the respective Category Code shall be as per Investment 
– Master Circular on Category of Investments  
 
a. Category Listing Method   
 
The list should follow the category code as prescribed in Investment – Master Circular.  
 
The Opening Balance of each sub -category shall be the consolidated entry, shown at the book cost of 
that particular sub -category or at the Actual Cost of Purchases after amortization. In respect of 
investment property, equity, mutual fund investment, the o pening balance shall be shown at weighted 
average cost of acquisition under respective category of investments. The same shall be the closing 
balance of previous quarter.  
 
b. Purchases for the Quarter

[Page 28]
Page 28 of 31 
 
All purchases made during the period shall be shown at the consolidated Weighted Average Value, 
category code wise (as provided in Guidelines on Category of Investments), and be listed in the same  
sequence as provided in the “Category of Investments”. The Face Value shall be the consolidated Value 
of each security purchased during the Quarter.   
 
c. Cost of Sales  
 
In case of equity, cost of sales shall be the Weighted Average Cost of the investment and in case of debt 
securities the cost of sales shall be the amortized cost of investment at the time of sale.  
 
d. Closing Balance  
 
In Closing Balance column, the book value shall be the sum of Weighted Average Cost of Opening 
Balance and Purchases made during the period as reduced by the Cost of Sales for that period plus 
adjustments if any. The closing balance, thus arrived at each sub -category level should be grossed at 
each category level. The book value, Market Value of each sub-category of Category of Investments shall 
be reconciled with FORM 3A/3B.   
 
e. % To Total   
 
For Life Insurance Companies : In case of Non - Linked Funds, each category code will be calculated with 
respect to on Book value and the same will be calculated with respect to Market Value basis for linked 
funds. For General Insurer including an insurer carrying on business of re -insurance or health insurance 
Companies, It will be calculated on Book value basis.   
 
f. Adjustments  
 
Any change in value of investments due to cat code reclassification during the quarter, adjustments in 
securities on account of corporate action entitlements and amortization of  premium/ accretion of 
discount on investments shall be reported under Adjustments column.  
 
NOTE  
 
1. Investments – Master Circular on “Prudential norms for Income Recognition, Asset Classification and 
Provisioning and Other related matters” shall be complied with.  
2. Refer Annexure – 1 of this Guidelines for “Category of Investments for Life, Linked and General 
Insurer including an insurer carrying on business of re -insurance or health insurance  Business as 
amended from time to time”  
3. Refer Annexure – 2 of this Guidelines for “Market Value – Basis for FORM 3A, FORM 3B”  
4. In case of ULIP, FORM 5 shall be prepared at Segregated Fund (SFIN) level for ULIP funds.

[Page 29]
Page 29 of 31 
 
5. All transaction shall comply with provisions in Investments - Master Circular  on “Transaction on 
Stock Market to be on cash basis”

[Page 30]
Page 30 of 31 
 
FORM 6 – CERTIFICATE UNDER SECTION 27A (5) OF INSURANCE ACT, 1938 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
This form confirms the reconciliation of Investments as per Investment Returns and the same held free 
of charge, lien, hypoth ecation etc. This form is linked to FORM 3A/3B. This form shall be signed by 
Chairman and two Directors and the Principal Officer. The non -encumbrance shall need to be reported 
by both insurer and the custodian.  
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
1. The form is prepared fund-wise and in aggregate for all segregated linked funds.  
2. The Separate Custodian account shall be maintained for balance investments of Shareholder’s fund 
that does not form part of the FRSM.   
3. The details are furnished at major cat egory code level namely, investment in Central Government 
Securities, State Government Securities, Other Approved Securities, Infrastructure/Housing & Loans 
to State Govt. for Housing & FFE, Approved Investment, Other than Approved Investment.  
4. The stateme nt reveals the holding particulars of Banks (Custodian bank), Self and Others with 
respect to Shareholder / Policy holder fund and shall certify the following.  
 
a. The custodian should certify in the disclosure that he is not disqualified by SEBI (Custodian 
of securities) Regulation every time on annual basis.   
b. The value should be adjusted for Purchase/Sale of investments purchased and awaiting 
settlement. Reconciliation to this effect should be attached to the certificate.  
c. If the custodian belongs to promoter group, the norms of the promoter group as in the 
mentioned in Investment - Master Circular shall be complied with.  
 
5. Investment current assets of linked busin ess to be presented under the custody of self. CBLO and 
Securities which are lent through SLB to be presented under the custody of ‘Others’. Government 
Securities and Treasury bills, Reverse Repo held in SGL account with Reserve Bank of India shall be 
classified under ‘Bank’ while for insurers availing CSGL account, these holdings should be shown 
under the respective head i.e. Banks if held with Custodian Bank else under ‘Others’.   
 
6. Detailed reconciliation  statement  for Securities which  are lent through SLB Framework, 
coveringnameofthescrip,no.ofsecuritieslent,nameofthefund,maximum limit permissible in such fund 
based on the total quantity held, stock exchange,  date of expiry of the contract, value of the 
securities lent as on the date of the Return shall be provided along with Form 6.

[Page 31]
Page 31 of 31 
 
FORM 7 – DETAILS OF NON-PERFORMING ASSETS 
 
OBJECTIVE  
 
This form provides the Non Performing Asset details in the debt investments of the funds.   
 
A. METHOD OF PREPARATION  
 
1. This form is to be prepared at SFIN level for ULIP fund and at aggregate fund level for Life Fund, 
Pension & General Annuity funds and General Insurer including an insurer carrying on business of 
re-insurance or health insurance.   
2. The absolute amount of G ross NPA as on date (before Provision of NPA to be provided but after 
write off)  
3. Gross NPA as on date to Investment assets shall be shown by dividing “Gross NPA” by “Investment 
Assets”  
4. Item No 4 shall be Provisions made for NPAs appearing under “Gross NPA”  
5. Ratio of provisions made on the “NPAs” to “Gross NPA” shall not include provisions made on 
Standard Assets   
6. Provision made on the 'Standard Assets' shall be as per Investments - Master Circular as amended 
from time to time.  
7. “Net Investment Assets” is to be arrived at by subtracting provisions (Item no. 4) from Investment 
Assets (Item no. 1)  
8. “Net NPA” is to be arrived at by subtracting provision (Item no. 4) from the Gross NPA (Item no.2)  
9. “% of the net NPA” shall be calculated by dividing “Net NPA” by “Net Investment Asset”   
10. Write off made during the period shall be as approved by the Board of the Insurer
