[Page 1]
RBI/FED/2015-16/5 
FED Master Direction No. 9/2015-16                                                        January 1, 2016 
(Updated as on December 07, 2021) 
                                                                                 (Updated as on November 17, 2016) 
To, 
All Authorised Persons in Foreign Exchange 
Madam / Sir, 
Master Direction - Insurance 
Issuance of insurance is regulated under sub- section (2) of Section 47 of the Foreign 
Exchange Management Act, 1999, (42 of 1999), read with Notification No. 1/2000-RB 
dated May 03, 2000 and 12(R)/2015-RB, dated December 29, 2015. These Regulations 
are amended from time to time to incorporate the changes in the regulatory framework 
and published through amendment notifications. 
2. Within the contours of the Regulations, Reserve Bank of India also issues directions 
to Authorised Persons under Section 11 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act 
(FEMA), 1999. These directions lay down the modalities as to how the foreign exchange 
business has to be conducted by the Authorised Persons with their customers/ 
constituents with a view to implementing the regulations framed. 
3. This Master Direction  consolidates the existing instructions on the subject of 
"Insurance" at one place. Reporting instructions, if any, can be found in Master Direction 
on Reporting (Master Direction No. 18 dated January 01, 2016). 
4. It may be noted that, whenever necess ary, Reserve Bank shall issue directions to 
Authorised Persons through A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars in regard to any change in the 
Regulations or the manner in which relative transactions are to be conducted by the 
Authorised Persons with their customers/ c onstituents. The Master Direction issued 
herewith shall be amended suitably simultaneously. 
Yours faithfully, 
(R. S. Amar) 
Chief General Manager

[Page 2]
Master Direction - Insurance 
 
1. Introduction 
Life insurance and general insurance business in India can be undertaken by insurance 
companies registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) 
and as per the regulations notified by Reserve Bank of India under  Notification 
No.1/2000-RB dated May 03, 2000  and 12(R)/2015-RB, dated December 29, 2015 , as 
amended from time to time. 
2. Foreign Exchange regulations relating to General / Health / Life Insurance from 
Insurers outside India. 
A.1 General/ Health Insurance policies from Insurers outside India. 
i) A person resident in India may take or continue to hold a health insurance policy 
issued by an insurer outside India provided aggregate remittance including 
amount of premium does not exceed the limits prescribed by RBI under the 
Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) from time to time. 
ii) Units located in SEZs  may take or continue to hold general/health insurance 
policies from insurers outside India subject to IRDAI Guidelines and Central 
Government rules provided the premium is paid by the units out of their foreign 
exchange balances. 
iii) No person shall take out or renew any policy of insurance in respect of any 
property in India or any ship or other vessel or aircraft registered in India with an 
insurer whose principal place of business is outside India without permission of 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI). 
 
 
A.2   All risk insurance policies 
INDEX 
Sr. No. Contents 
1. Introduction 
2. Foreign Exchange R egulations relating to General / Health / Life 
Insurance from Insurers outside India. 
3. Foreign Exchange Regulations relating to General/ Health Insurance from 
insurers in India 
4. Foreign Exchange Regulations relating to Life Insurance from insurers in 
India

[Page 3]
Insurance on Indian marine hulls covering All Risks against war and other allied 
risks (arising out of civil commotion, political or labour disturbances etc.) is 
required to be obtained only from the Insurers in India. 
B. Life insurance policy from insurer outside India by Residents 
(i) A person resident in India may take or continue to hold a life insurance policy 
issued by an insurer outside India, provided that the policy is held under a 
specific or general permission of the Reserve Bank of India. 
(ii) A person resident in India may continue to hold any life insurance policy issued 
by an insurer outside India when such person was resident outside India. If the 
premium due on a life insurance policy has  been paid by making remittance from 
India, the policy holder shall repatriate to India through normal banking channels, 
the maturity proceeds or amount of any claim due on the policy, within a period of 
seven days from the receipt thereof. 
3. Foreign Exchange Regulations relating to General/ Health Insurance from 
insurers in India 
3.1 Definitions 
i) "Person resident in India" and "Foreign Currency" will have the same 
meaning as defined under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999. 
(ii) “Insurers” means the Indian Insurance Companies as defined in Section 
3(9) of The Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015 and registered with 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) to carry 
out general/health insurance/reinsurance business in India. 
3.2 Payment of insurance premium in foreign exchange. 
Payment of premium in foreign exchange means and includes payment of 
premium in foreign exchange and/or payment of premium in INR derived by sale 
of foreign exchange to an authorised dealer or an authorised money- changer. 
Appropriate documentary evidence may be insisted upon at the time of accepting 
payment. 
3.3       General/ Health Insurance policies by Indian Residents 
Resident of India may take general/health insurance policy permitted by IRDAI 
from Indian insurer on payment of premium in INR, where claims arising under 
the policies outside India are to be settled in foreign currency.  
3.4  General/Health Insurance policies by Residents outside India.

[Page 4]
Resident outside India may take general/health insurance policy  as permitted by 
IRDAI from Indian Insurers. Claims arising under the polici es are to be settled in 
INR if payment of premium is in INR  and in any currency if payment of premium 
is in foreign currency. However, Insurance cover on risks inside India (inclu ding 
All Risks Insurance) on assets in India owned by Indian branches/offices of 
foreign companies, banks, etc., may be issued only in INR. 
3.5 Transaction in Nepal and Bhutan 
Indians, Nepalese and Bhutanese resident in Nepal and Bhutan as well as 
offices and branches of Indian, Nepalese and Bhutanese firms, companies or 
other organizations in these two countries are treated as resident in India for 
purpose of transactions in INR. Payment of claims to such persons against 
general/health insurance policies may be freely made in INR. Payments in 
foreign currency towards claims under general/health insurance policies will 
require prior approval of Reserve Bank, except where premium thereon was also 
collected in foreign currency. 
3.6 Settlement of claims in foreign currency 
       A.D. Banks may allow foreign currency remittance for claims under IRDAI 
permitted general/ health insurance policies issued by Indian insurers where 
settlement of claims is assured in foreign currency subject to following conditions. 
i)         The claim has been admitted by the competent authority of the insurer; 
ii)    The claim has been settled as per the surveyor’s report wherever 
applicable and other substantiating documents; 
iii)       Claims on account of reinsurance are being lodged with the reinsurers 
and will be received as per reinsurance agreement; 
iv)      The remittance is being made under the policy to the beneficiary who is 
resident outside India. For resident beneficiaries the claim may be 
settled in INR equivalent of forei gn currency due. Under no 
circumstances payment in foreign currency be made to a resident 
beneficiary; 
v)     In case of settlement of claims of import into India, Insurance company 
is satisfied that:- 
    (a)  Remittance in foreign exchange is not already made by Importer and

[Page 5]
(b)  If Import is made against Import Licence,    the amount of insurance    
policy premium is endorsed on the import licence; 
vi)    In case of settlement of insurance claims of export from India, Insurance 
company is satisfied that the payment is received in foreign exchange 
by the Indian exporter; 
vii)    In case of settlement of insurance claims in respect of assets located 
outside India owned by residents of India, permission of Reserve Bank 
of India for holding the property had been obtained, (wherever 
necessary); 
viii)    Claims arising outside India against policies issued under Employers’ 
Liability Act and Merchant Shipping Act may be paid in appropriate 
foreign currency. Remittances will be allowed for meeting specific 
claims on application by the Insurers furnishing full details of the 
claims; 
ix)       In case of cashless international health insurance products remittances 
may be allowed to the hospital which has provided the treatment/Third 
Party Administrator with whic h the insurer or the hospital has entered 
into a contractual arrangement in accordance with applicable IRDAI 
regulations or to the insured person resident outside India. 
Note:  
(a) Where original documents are not available for any reason, photo copies 
may be accepted with reasons for non-availability of the original documents.  
This provision does not apply to remittances for replenishment of foreign 
currency balances which will require specific approval of Reserve Bank of 
India. 
(b) Claims may be settled in INR in favour of Indian exporters even in cases 
where title to the goods has passed to foreign buyer, if a request to that 
effect has been made by the claimant resident outside India. A certificate 
indicating full particulars of the transaction including number  of relative EDF 
form (wherever applicable) and amount paid in settlement of claim should 
be issued to the exporter to enable the latter to obtain necessary approval 
from Reserve Bank for making replacement shipments; 
(c) Authorised dealers have been permitted to open revolving letters of credit in 
favour of established claims -settling agents abroad and reimburse claims

[Page 6]
under the credit on verification of the necessary documentary evidence viz. 
statement of claim, survey report or other documentary evidence of 
loss/damage, original policy or certificate of insurance etc. 
3.7     Re-Insurance 
Reinsurance arrangements of the insurers registered with IRDAI are to be 
decided by the companies themselves on an annual basis, which is to be 
approved by the respective insurer's Board in compliance with IRDAI 
Regulations. Authorised dealer, designated by these insurers may allow 
remittances falling due under such approved reinsurance arrangements by the 
insurers in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by their Boards. 
3.8     Remittance of Reinsurance Premium by IRDAI licensed brokers  
Wherever IRDAI licensed brokers arrange the reinsurance on behalf of insurers,  
brokers may remit the premium through the branch of the authorised dealer 
designated by the insurer  in terms of para 9 above subject to the production of 
undernoted documents: 
i)        Relative debit notes from overseas insurance company and/or Broker. 
ii)       Detailed statement of premium settled by the individual insurer, along with 
a certificate to the effect that the amount of reinsurance business is within 
the overall limit approved by the insurer's Board and that the risks covered 
under the reinsurance arrangements are within the scope of the 
Reinsurance Programme, approved by the insurer's Boar d in compliance 
with IRDAI Regulations. 
iii)      A certificate from the Chartered Accountant of the broker, prepared on the 
basis of certificates and statements obtained from the insurers, to the 
effect that the proposed remittance of reinsurance premium sought, is in 
agreement with the various statements/certificates obtained from the 
insurer/s. 
iv) Copy of approval letter from IRDAI for placing business outside India by 
direct insurance brokers.

[Page 7]
3.9     Foreign Currency Accounts Abroad 
Insurers may open, hold and maintain with a bank outside India foreign 
currency accounts for facilitating transactions and expenses relating/incidental 
to general/health insurance / reinsurance business undertaken in foreign 
countries in accordance with regulations laid down.  Insurers should 
endeavour to keep in their foreign currency accounts only the minimum 
balances required for normal business and transfer to India regularly all 
surplus funds held at foreign centres. 
3.10      Investments Abroad 
General/health insurers may invest freely, out of their funds abroad, without 
prior approval of Reserve Bank of India subject to the following conditions:  
(i) Statutory requirement of host country concerned; and, 
(ii) IRDAI guidelines, if any, and in accordance wi th applicable FEMA 
regulations relating to investment abroad. 
4.  Foreign Exchange Regulations relating to Life Insurance from insurers in India 
  
4.1   Definitions 
i) "Person resident in India", "Person resident outside India" and "foreign 
currency" will have the same meaning as defined under Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999).  
ii) ‘Overseas Citizen of India (OCI)’ means a person resident outside India who 
is registered as an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder under Section 7(A) 
of the Citizenship Act, 1955. 
iii) ‘Not permanently resident' means a person resident in India for employment 
of a specified duration (irrespective of length thereof) or for a specific job or 
assignment, the duration of which does not exceed three years. 
iv) “Insurer in India”  means Life insurers registered with Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) to carry out Life insurance 
business in India. 
4.2    Issuance of policies and collection of premium. 
a)      Residents 
(i)      Policies may be issued in foreign currency to resident persons of Indian 
nationality or overseas citizens of India who have returned to India after 
being resident outside India, provided the premium are paid out of

[Page 8]
remittances from foreign currency funds held by them  abroad or from their 
Resident Foreign Currency (RFC) account with authorised dealers in 
India. 
(ii)     Policies denominated in foreign currency or rupees may be issued to 
foreign nationals not permanently resident in India provided the premium 
is paid out of foreign currency funds or from their income earned in India 
or repatriable superannuation/ pension fund in India. 
(iii)     Conversion of Rupee policies on the lives of persons resident in India into 
foreign currency or transfer of records of such policies to a country outside 
India is not permitted without prior approval of Reserve Bank. 
b)       Residents outside India 
(i)     Insurer in India may issue policies denominated in foreign currency through 
their offices in India or abroad to residents out side India provided the 
premium are collected in foreign currency from abroad or out of 
NRE/FCNR accounts of the insured or his family members held in India.  
(ii)    For policies denominated in rupees issued to residents outside India, funds 
held in NRO accounts can be accepted towards payment of premium. 
(iii) Policies issued to Indian nationals and overseas citizens of India resident  
abroad by overseas offices of Insurer in India may be transferred to Indian 
register, together with the actuarial reserves held against the policies, on 
the policy holders’ return to India. Foreign currency policies in such 
circumstances shall be converted into rupee policies except in cases where 
the policy has been in force for at least 3 years prior to policy holder’s 
return to India and the policy holder wishes to retain and continue the 
foreign currency policy. Requests received for payment in foreign currency 
towards premium on such policies may be permitted by authorised dealers 
provided the policy holder undertakes to repatr iate to India the maturity 
proceeds or any claim amounts due on the policy through normal banking 
channels with in a period of seven days from the receipt thereof. 
4.3. Settlement of claims 
(i)       The basic rule for settlement of claims on rupee life insurance policies in 
favour of claimants resident outside India is that payments in foreign

[Page 9]
currency will be permitted only in proportion in which the amount of premium 
has been paid in foreign currency in relation to the total premium payable. 
(ii)  Residents outside India who are beneficiaries of insurance 
claims/maturity/surrender value settled in foreign currency may be permitted 
to credit the same to NRE/FCNR account, if they so desire. 
(iii) (a) Resident beneficiaries of the insurance claims/ maturity/ surrender value 
settled in foreign currency may be permitted to open and credit the 
proceeds thereof to their RFC (Domestic) Account. 
       (b) The Policy holder Indian residents who were outside India, and are the 
beneficiaries of insurance claims/maturity or surrender value settled in 
foreign currency in respect of policies issued by Insurer in India may be 
permitted to credit the proceeds to the RFC Account opened by them on 
their becoming residents.  
(iv)       Claims/maturity proceeds/ surrender value in respect of rupee life insurance 
policies issued to Indians resident outside India for which premium have 
been collected in non- repatriable rupees may be paid only in rupees by 
credit to NRO account of the beneficiary. This would also apply in cases of 
death claims being settled in favour of resident outside India assignees/ 
nominees. 
(v)       Claims/maturity proceeds/ surrender value in respect of rupee policies issued 
to foreign nationals not permanently resident in India may be paid in rupees 
or may be allowed to be remitted abroad, if the claimant so desires. 
4.4      Commission to overseas Agents 
           Insurer in India may pay commission to their agents who are permanently 
resident outside India regardless of the fact that part of the business booked by 
them may be on the lives of persons resident in India and relative premium are 
paid in rupees in India. Remittances of commission from India to such agents 
abroad will be governed by instructions contained in Government Notification 
No.G.S.R. 381(E) dated May 3, 2000 relating to Current Account transactions as 
amended from time to time. 
4.5     Reinsurance 
           In terms of the existing instructions, reinsurance arrangements f or the insurance 
companies registered with IRDAI are to be decided by the companies

[Page 10]
themselves on an annual basis which is to be approved by the respective 
insurance company's Board in compliance with IRDAI Regulations. Authorised 
dealers, designated by t hese insurance companies may allow remittances falling 
due under such approved reinsurance arrangements by the insurer in 
accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by their Boards. 
4.6      Foreign Currency accounts 
Insurer in India may open, hold  and maintain with a bank outside India foreign 
currency accounts for facilitating transactions and expenses relating /incidental to 
life insurance business undertaken in foreign countries in accordance with the 
above guidelines. Insurer in India should tr ansfer to India regularly all surplus 
funds held at foreign centres and endeavour to keep in their foreign currency 
accounts only minimum balances required for normal business. 
4.7      Investments abroad 
 Insurer in India invest freely, out of their funds  abroad without prior approval of 
Reserve Bank subject to  
(i) Statutory requirement of host country concerned and 
(ii) IRDAI guidelines if any and in accordance with applicable FEMA regulations 
relating to investment abroad. 
4.8     Utilisation of Foreign Currency Funds 
(i)    Insurer in India may freely use its foreign currency balances for meeting all the 
normal expenses of its overseas offices inclusive of taxes and other dues in 
connection with maintenance and upkeep of buildings and properties held by 
insurers in foreign countries as well as purchase of cars for official use. 
(ii)  Insurer in India may also freely use their overseas funds for settlement of 
provident fund, gratuity and other retirement benefits to retiring employees of 
overseas offices. 
(iii) Insurer in India may grant loans, without prior permission of Reserve Bank, to 
employees of their overseas offices (other than Indian nationals who had been 
deputed or posted from India) against provident fund balances held in the 
country concerned provided loan recoveries will be made in foreign currency.
