[Page 1]
RBI/FED/2015-16/6 
FED Master Direction No.10/2015-16                                                    January 01, 2016 
                                                                                            (Updated as on May 18, 2021) 
                                                                                                                       (Updated as on March 29, 2019) 
                                                                                    (Updated as on February 28, 2019) 
                                                                                            (Updated as on May 10, 2018) 
                                                                                           (Updated as on May 17, 2016) 
 
To, 
 
All Authorised Dealer Category – I banks  
 
Dear Madam / Sir, 
 
Master Direction - Establishment of Branch Office (BO)/ Liaison Office (LO)/ Project 
Office (PO) or any other place of business in India by foreign entities 
 
Establishment of branch office/ liaison office / project office or any other place of business 
in India by foreign entities is regulated in terms of Section 6(6) of  Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 read with 1Notification No. FEMA 22(R)/2016-RB dated March 31, 
2016. These Regulations are amended from time to time to incorporate the changes in the 
regulatory framework and published through amendment notifications. 
 
2. Within the contours of the Regulations, Reserve Bank of India also issues directions to 
Authorised Persons under Section 11 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA ), 
1999. These directions lay down the modalities as to how the foreign exchange business 
has to be conducted by the Authorised Persons with their customers/constituents with a 
view to implementing the regulations framed. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
1 Notification No. FEMA 22/2000 -RB dated May 3, 2000 , on Foreign Exchange Management (establishment in India of Branch or office or other 
place of business) Regulation was repealed and replaced by Notification No. FEMA 22(R)/2016-RB dated March 31, 2016 with effect from March 
31, 2016.

[Page 2]
2 
 
3. This Master Direction  consolidates the existing instructions on the subject of 
“Establishment of branch office/ liaison office / project office or any other place of business 
in India by foreign entities ” at one place. Reporting instructions can be found in Master 
Direction on reporting (Master Direction No. 18 dated January 1, 2016). 
4. It may be noted that, whenever necessary, Reserve Bank shall issue directions to 
Authorised Persons through A.P. (DIR Seri es) Circulars in regard to any change in the 
Regulations or the manner in which relative transactions are to be conducted by the 
Authorised Persons with their customers/ constituents. The Master Direction issued 
herewith shall be amended suitably simultaneously. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 (Ravinder Singh Amar) 
Chief General Manager

[Page 3]
3 
 
INDEX 
 
Sr.No Contents 
1.  General criteria  
2.  Procedure for applying 
3.  Opening of bank account by BO/LO/PO 
4.  Annual Activity Certificate by BO/LO/PO 
5.  Extension of validity period of the approval of LO and PO 
6.  Registration with police authorities 
7.  Application for additional offices and activities 
8.  Extension of fund and non-fund based facilities 
9.  Remittance of profit/surplus 
10.  Closure of BO/LO/PO 
11.   Transfer of assets of BO/LO/PO 
12.  Guidance note for the AD Category-I bank 
13.  Annex A- Format of the Letter of Comfort 
14.  Annex B- Form FNC 
15.  Annex C - Permitted activities for a branch office  and liaison office  in 
India of a person resident outside India 
16.  Appendix

[Page 4]
4 
 
Master Direction - Establishment of Branch Office (BO) / Liaison Office (LO) / Project 
Office (PO) in India by foreign entities 
 
1. General criteria 
i. Applications from foreign companies (a body corporate incorporated outside 
India, including a firm or other association of i ndividuals) for establishing 
BO/ LO/ PO in India shall be considered by the AD Category -I bank as per 
the guidelines given by Reserve Bank of India (RBI).  
ii. An application from a person resident outside India for opening of a 
BO/LO/PO in India shall require prior approval of Reserve Bank of India and 
shall be forwarded by the AD Category -I bank to the General Manager, 
Reserve Bank of India, Central Office Cell, Foreign Exchange Department, 
6, Sansad Marg, New Delhi -  110 001 who shall process the applications in 
consultation with the Government of India, in the following cases: 
a. The applicant is a citizen of or is registered/incorporated in Pakistan; 
b. The applicant  is a citizen of or is registered/incorporated in Bangladesh, 
Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Iran, China, Hong Kong or Macau and the 
application is for opening a BO/LO/PO in Jammu and Kashmir, North 
East region and Andaman and Nicobar Islands; 
c. 2The principal business of the applicant falls in the four sectors namely 
Defence, Telecom, Private Security and Infor mation and Broadcasting.  
However, prior approval of Reserve Bank of India shall not be required in 
cases where Government approval or license/permission by the 
concerned Ministry/Regulator has already been granted. Further,  in the 
                                                           
2 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 22(R)(2) dated January 21, 2019 and AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 27   dated 
March 28, 2019. Prior to modification, it read as “ The principal business of the applicant falls in the four sectors 
namely Defence, Telecom, Private Security and Information and Broadcasting. In the case of proposal for 
opening a PO relating to defence sector, no separate reference or approval of Government of India  shall be 
required if the said non- resident applicant has been awarded a contract by/ entered into an agreement with 
Ministry of Defence or Service Headquarters or Defence Public Sector Undertakings. No separate approval is 
required from Reserve Bank of India for such cases only.”

[Page 5]
5 
 
case of proposal for opening a PO relating to defence sector, no 
separate reference or approval of Government of India shall be required 
if the said non- resident applicant has been awarded a contract by/ 
entered into an agreement with Ministry of Defence or Service 
Headquarters or  Defence Public Sector Undertakings.  The term 
“permission” used in the Government of India Notification dated January 
21, 2019  does not include general permission, if any,  available under 
Foreign Direct Investment in the automatic route, in respect of the above 
four sectors. 
d. The applicant is a Non- Government Organisation  (NGO), Non -Profit 
Organisation, Body/ Agency/ Department of a foreign government.  
However, if such entit y is engaged, partly or wholly, in any of the 
activities covered under Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 
(FCRA), they shall obtain a certificate of registration under the said Act 
and shall not seek permission under FEMA 22(R)3. 
iii. The non-resident entity applying for  a BO/LO in India should have a 
financially sound track record viz:  
a. For Branch Office — a profit making track record during the immediately 
preceding five financial years in the home country and net worth of not 
less than USD 100,000 or its equivalent. 
Net Worth [total of paid- up capital and free reserves, less intangible 
assets as per the latest Audited Balance Sheet or Account Statement 
certified by a Certified Public Accountant or any Registered Accounts 
Practitioner by whatever name called]. 
b. For Liaison Office — a profit making track record during the immediately 
preceding three financial years in the home country and net worth of not 
less than USD 50,000 or its equivalent.  
                                                           
3 Inserted vide Notification No. FEMA 22(R)(1)/2018-RB dated August 31, 2018 and AP (DIR Series) 
Circular No  20  dated February 27, 2019.

[Page 6]
6 
 
iv. An a pplicant that is  not financially sound and is a subsidia ry of another 
company may submit a Letter of Comfort (LOC) (Annex A) from its parent/ 
group company, subject to the condition that the parent/ group company 
satisfies the prescribed criteria for net worth and profit.  
2. Procedure for applying 
i. The application for establishing BO / LO/ PO in India may be submitted by 
the non-resident entity in Form FNC (Annex B) to a designated AD Category 
- I bank (i.e. an AD Category –  I bank identified by the applicant with whom 
they intend to pursue banking relations) along  with the prescribed 
documents mentioned in the Form  and the LOC, wherever applicable. The 
AD Category -I bank shall after exercising due diligence in respect of the 
applicant’s background, and satisfying itself as regards adherence to the 
eligibility crite ria for establishing B O/LO/PO, antecedents of the promoter, 
nature and location of activity of the applicant, sources of funds, etc. , and 
compliance with the extant KYC norms grant approval to the foreign entity 
for establishing BO/LO/PO in India. The AD C ategory-I banks may frame 
appropriate policy for dealing with these applications in conformity with the 
FEMA Regulations and Directions. 
ii. However, before issuing the approval letter to the applicant, the AD 
Category-I bank shall forward a copy of the Form FNC along with the details 
of the approval proposed to be granted by it  to the General Manager, 
Reserve Bank of India, CO Cell, New Delhi, for allotment of Unique 
Identification Number (UIN) to each BO/LO.  After receipt of the UIN from 
the Reserve Bank, the AD Category -I bank shall issue the approval letter to 
the non- resident entity for establishing BO/LO in India. This is in order to 
enable the Reserve Bank to keep, maintain and upload up- to-date list of all 
foreign entities which have been granted permis sion for establishing BO/LO 
in India, on its website. 
iii. The validity period of an LO is generally for three years, except in the case 
of Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFCs) and those entities engaged in 
construction and development sectors, for whom the validity period is two

[Page 7]
7 
 
years only. The validity period of the project office is for the tenure of the 
project.  
iv. There is a general permission to non- resident companies to establish POs 
in India, provided they have secured a contract from an Indian company to  
execute a project in India. Also, the project must have secured the 
necessary regulatory clearances; andis funded directly by inward remittance 
from abroad; or the project is  funded by a bilateral or multilateral 
International Financing Agency, or a company or entity in India awarding the 
contract has been granted Term Loan by a Public Financial Institution or a 
bank in India for the Project.  
v. An applicant that has received a permission for setting up of a BO/LO/PO 
shall inform the designated AD Category I bank as to the date on which the 
BO/LO/PO has been set up. The AD Category I bank in turn shall inform 
Reserve Bank accordingly. In case an approval granted by the AD bank has 
either been surrendered by the applicant or has expired without any 
BO/LO/PO b eing set up, the AD Category I bank shall inform RBI 
accordingly. 
vi. The approval granted by the AD Category I bank should include a proviso to 
the effect that in case the BO/LO/PO for which approval has been granted is 
not opened within six months from the date of the approval letter, the 
approval shall lapse. In cases where the non- resident entity is not able to 
open the office within the stipulated time frame due to reasons beyond its  
control, the AD Category-I bank may consider granting extension of time for 
a further period of six months for setting up the office. Any further extension 
of time shall require the prior approval of Reserve Bank of India in this 
regard. 
vii. All a pplications for establishing a BO/LO  in India by foreign banks and 
insurance companies will be directly received and examined by the 
Department of Banking Regulation (DBR), Reserve Bank of India, Central 
Office and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA),

[Page 8]
8 
 
respectively.  No UIN for such representative offices is required f rom the 
Foreign Exchange Department, Reserve Bank of India. 
viii. There is a general permission to non- resident companies for establishing 
BO in the Special Economic Zones (SEZs) to undertake manufacturing and 
service activities subject to the conditions that: 
a. such BOs  are functioning in those sectors where 100% FDI is 
permitted; 
b. such BOs comply with Chapter XXII of the Companies Act, 
2013; and 
c. such BOs function on a stand-alone basis. 
In the event of winding -up of business and for remittance of winding -up 
proceeds, the branch shall approach an AD Category –  I bank with the 
documents as mentioned in para 1 0 under "Closure of Liaison / Branch 
Office".  
3. Opening of bank account by BO/LO/PO 
i. An LO may approach the designated AD Category I Bank in India to open 
an account to receive remittances from its Head Office outside India. It may 
be noted that an LO shall not maintain more than one bank account at any 
given time without the prior permission of Reserve Bank of India. The 
permitted Credits and Debits to the account shall be: 
a. Credits      
1. Funds received from Head Office through normal banking 
channels for meeting the expenses of the office. 
2. Refund of security deposits paid from LO ’s account or 
directly by the Head Office through normal banking 
channels. 
3. Refund of t axes, duties etc., received from tax authorities, 
paid from LO’s bank account. 
4. Sale proceeds of assets of the LO.

[Page 9]
9 
 
b. Debits        
Only for meeting the local expenses of the office. 
ii. A BO may approach any AD Category -I Bank in India to open an account 
for its operations in India. Credits to the account should represent the funds 
received from Head Office through normal banking channels for meeting the 
expenses of the office and any legitimate receivables arising in the process 
of its business operations . Debits to this account shall be for the expenses 
incurred by the BO and towards remittance of profit/winding up proceeds. 
iii. Any foreign entity except an entity from Pakistan who has been awarded a 
contract for a project by the Government authority/Public Sector 
Undertakings or are permitted by the AD to operate in India may open a 
bank account without any prior approval of the Reserve Bank. An entity from 
Pakistan shall need prior approval of Reserve Bank of India to open a bank 
account for its project office in India.  
iv. AD Category –  I banks can open non -interest bearing foreign currency 
account for POs in India subject to the following: 
a. The PO has been established in India, with the general / specific 
permission of Reserve Bank of India, having the requisite approv al 
from the concerned Project Sanctioning Authority concerned as per 
these Regulations.  
b. The contract governing the project  specifically provides for payment 
in foreign currency.  
c. Each PO can open two foreign currency accounts, usually one 
denominated in U SD and other in home currency  of the project 
awardee, provided both are maintained with the same AD Category–I 
bank.  
d. The permissible debits to the account shall be payment of project 
related expenditure and credits shall be foreign currency receipts 
from the Project Sanctioning Authority and remittances from 
parent/group company abroad or bilateral / multilateral international 
financing agency.

[Page 10]
10 
 
e. The responsibility of ensuring that only the approved debits and 
credits are allowed in the foreign currency account shall rest solely 
with the AD Category –I bank. Further, the accounts shall be subject 
to 100 per cent scrutiny by the Concurrent Auditor of the respective 
AD Category–I bank.  
f. The foreign currency accounts have to be closed at the completion of 
the project.  
4. Annual Activity Certificate by BO/LO/PO 
i. The Annual Activity Certificate (AAC) as at the end of March 31 each year 
along with the required documents needs to be submitted by the following: 
a. In case of a sole BO/ LO/PO, by the BO/LO/PO concerned; 
b. In case of multiple BOs / LOs, a combined AAC in respect of all the 
offices in India by the nodal office of the BOs / LOs. 
The LO/BO needs to submit the AAC to the designated AD Category -I bank 
as well as Director General of Income Tax (International Taxation), New 
Delhi whereas the PO needs to submit the AAC only to the designated AD 
Category -I bank. 
ii. The designated AD Category -  I bank shall scrutinize the AACs and ensure 
that the activities undertaken by the BO/LO are being carried out in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the approval given. In the event 
of any adverse findings reported by the auditor or noticed by the designated 
AD Category - I bank, the same should immediately be reported to the 
General Manager, Reserve Bank of India, CO Cell, New Delhi, along with 
the copy of the AAC and their comments thereon. 
5. Extension of validity period of the approval of LO and PO  
i. Requests for extension of time for LOs may be submitted before the 
expiry of the validity of the approval, to the AD Category -I b ank 
concerned under whose jurisdiction the LO/ nodal office is located. The 
designated AD Category - I bank may extend the validity period of LO/s 
for a period of 3 years from the date of expiry of the original approval /

[Page 11]
11 
 
extension granted if the applicant has complied with the following 
conditions and the application is otherwise in order: 
a. The LO should have submitted the Annual Activity Certificates 
for the previous years and  
b. The account of the LO maintained with the designated AD 
Category – I bank is bei ng operated in accordance with the 
terms and conditions stipulated in the approval letter. 
Such extension has to be granted, as expeditiously as possible and in any case 
not later than one month from the receipt of the request under intimation to the 
General Manager, Reserve Bank of India, CO Cell, New Delhi quoting the 
reference number of the original approval letter and the UIN.  Reserve Bank 
shall update the information on its website immediately. 
ii. Further, entities engaged in construction and development sectors and 
Non-Banking Finance Companies are permitted to open a liaison office 
for two years only. No further extension would be considered for liaison 
offices of entities which are Non- Banking Finance Companies and those 
engaged in construction and development sectors (excluding 
infrastructure development companies). Upon expiry of the validity 
period, the offices shall have to either close down or be converted into a 
Joint Venture / Wholly Owned Subsidiary in conformity with the extant 
Foreign Direct Investment policy. 
6. Registration with police authorities 
Applicants from Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Iran, China, Hong Kong , 
Macau or Pakistan desirous of opening BO/LO/PO in India shall have to register 
with the state police authorities. Copy of appr oval letter for ‘persons’ from these 
countries shall be marked by the AD Category -I bank to the Ministry of Home 
Affairs, Internal Security Division- I, Government of India, New Delhi for necessary 
action and record.

[Page 12]
12 
 
7. Application for additional offices and activities 
i. Requests for establishing additional BO s / LOs may be submitted to the AD 
Category-I bank in a fresh FNC form. However, the documents mentioned in 
form FNC need not be resubmitted, if there are no changes to the 
documents already submitted earlier.  
a. If the number of offices exceeds 4 (i.e. one BO / LO in each zone viz; 
East, West, North and South), the applicant has to justify the need for 
additional office/s and it shall require prior approval of RBI. 
b. The applicant may identify one of its offices  in India as the Nodal Office, 
which will coordinate the activities of all of its offices in India.  
c. Whenever the existing BO/LO is shifting to another city in India, prior 
approval from the AD Category -I bank is required. However, no 
permission is required if the LO/BO is shifted to another place in the 
same city subject to the condition that the new address is intimated to 
the designated AD Category-I bank. Changes in the postal address may 
be intimated to the CO Cell, New Delhi by the AD Category -I bank at the 
earliest. 
ii. Requests for undertaking activities in addition to what has been permitted 
initially (Annex C) by Reserve Bank of India/ AD Category -I bank may be 
submitted by the applicant to the Reserve Bank through the designated AD 
Category -I bank justifying the need. 
8. Extension of fund and non-fund based facilities 
AD Category -I bank, may, based on their business prudence, Board approved 
policy and compliance to extant rules/regulations stipulated by DBR, RBI extend 
fund/non-fund based facilities to BOs/POs only. 
9. Remittance of profit/surplus 
i. BOs are permitted to remit outside India profit of the branch net of 
applicable Indian taxes, on production of the following documents to the 
satisfaction of the AD Category -I bank through whom the remittance is 
effected:

[Page 13]
13 
 
a. A certified copy of the audited Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss 
account for the relevant year.  
b. A Chartered Accountant’s certificate certifying  
I. the manner of arriving at the remittable profit; 
II. that the entire remittable profit has been earned by  
undertaking the permitted activities; and  
III. that the profit does not include any profit on revaluation of the 
assets of the branch.  
ii. AD Category –  I bank can permit intermittent remittances by POs pending 
winding up / completion of the project provided they are satisfied with the 
bonafides of the transaction, subject to the following:  
a. The PO submits an Auditors’ / Chartered Accountants’ Certificate to 
the effect that sufficient provisions have been made to meet the 
liabilities in India including Income Tax, etc.  
b. An undertaking from the PO that the remittance will not, in any way, 
affect the completion of the project in India and that any shortfall of 
funds for meeting any liability in India will be met by inward 
remittance from abroad.  
10. Closure of BO/LO/PO 
i. Requests for closure of the BO / LO/ PO and allowing the remittance of 
winding up proceeds of BO / LO/ PO may be submitted to the designated 
AD Category -  I bank by the BO/ LO/ PO or their nodal office, as the case 
may be. The application for winding up m ay be submitted along with the 
following documents: 
a. Copy of the Reserve Bank's/AD Category -I bank’s approval for 
establishing the BO/ LO/ PO. 
b. Auditor's certificate :  
i. indicating the manner in which the remittable amount has 
been arrived at and supported by  a statement of assets 
and liabilities of the applicant and indicating the manner of 
disposal of assets;

[Page 14]
14 
 
ii. confirming that all liabilities in India including arrears of 
gratuity and other benefits to employees, etc. of the office 
have been either fully met or adequately provided for; and 
iii. confirming that no income accruing from sources outside 
India (including proceeds of exports) has remained 
unrepatriated to India.  
c. Confirmation from the applicant/parent company that no legal 
proceedings in any Court in India are pending against the BO / 
LO/ PO and there is no legal impediment to the remittance. 
d. A report from the Registrar of Companies regarding compliance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, in case of 
winding up of the BO /LO in India, wherever applicable. 
e. The designated AD Category - I banks has to ensure that the BO / 
LO/ PO had filed their respective AACs. 
f. Any other document/s, specified by Reserve Bank of India/AD 
Category-I bank while granting approval.  
ii. Designated AD Category -I bank may all ow remittance of winding up 
proceeds in respect of offices of banks and insurance companies, after 
obtaining copies of permission of closure from the sectoral regulators 
along with the documents mentioned above.  
11. Transfer of assets of BO/LO/PO  
Proposals for transfer of assets may be considered by the AD Category -I bank 
only from BOs/LOs/POs who are adhering to the operational guidelines such as 
submission of AACs (up to the current financial year) at regular annual intervals 
with copies endorsed to DGIT (International Taxation); have obtained PAN from 
IT Authorities and have got registered with ROC under the Companies Act 
2013, if necessary. Also, 
i. Transfer of assets by way of sale to the JV/WoS be allowed by AD 
Category-I bank only when the non- resident entity intends to close their 
BO/LO/PO operations in India.

[Page 15]
15 
 
ii. A certificate is to be submitted from the Statutory Auditor furnishing 
details of assets to be transferred indicating their date of acquisition, 
original price, depreciation till date, present book v alue or written down 
value ( WDV) value and sale consideration to be obtained. Statutory 
Auditor should also confirm that the assets were not re- valued after their 
initial acquisition. The sale consideration should not be more than the 
book value in each case. 
iii. The assets should have been acquired by the BO/LO/PO from inward 
remittances and no intangible assets such as good will, pre- operative 
expenses should be included. No revenue expenses such as lease hold 
improvements incurred by the BO/LO can be capital ised and transferred 
to JV/WOS. 
iv. AD Category-I bank must ensure payment of all applicable taxes while 
permitting transfer of assets. 
v. Credits to the bank accounts of BO/LO/PO on account of such transfer 
of assets will be treated as permissible credits. 
vi. Donation by BO/LO/PO of old furniture, vehicles, computers and other 
office items etc. to NGOs or other not -for-profit organisations may be 
permitted by the AD category -I banks after satisfying itself about the 
bonafides of the transaction. 
12. Guidance note for the AD Category-I bank 
i. A BO/LO/PO or any other place of business by whatever name called is 
required to register with the Registrar of Companies (ROCs) once it 
establishes a place of business in India if such registration is required 
under the Companies Act, 2013.  
ii. The BOs / LOs shall obtain Permanent Account Number (PAN) from the 
Income Tax Authorities on setting up of their office in India and report the 
same in the AACs.  
iii. The existing PAN and bank accounts can be continued when an LO is 
permitted to upgrade into a BO.

[Page 16]
16 
 
iv. Each BO/ LO/PO are required to transact through one designated AD 
Category-I bank only who shall be responsible for the due diligence and 
KYC norms of the BO/LO/PO.  BO /LO/PO, present in multiple locations, 
are required to transact through their  designated AD. However, the AD 
of the nodal office is required to comply with all the reporting norms. 
v. BO/LO/PO can change their existing AD Category -I bank subject to both 
the AD banks giving consent in writing for the transfer and the 
transferring AD bank confirming submission of all AACs and absence of 
any adverse features in conducting the account by the BO/LO/PO. 
vi. Acquisition of property by BO/PO shall be governed by the guidelines 
issued under Foreign Exchange Management (Acquisition and transfer 
of immovable property outside India) Regulations.  
vii. As per section 6 (3) (h) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, 
BOs/LOs/POs have general permission to carry out permitted/ incidental 
activities from leased property subject to lease period not exceeding five 
years.  
viii. AD Category -I bank can allow term deposit account for a period not 
exceeding 6 months in favour of a BO/LO/PO of a person resident 
outside India provided the bank is satisfied that the term deposit is out of 
temporary surplus funds and th e BO/LO/PO furnishes an undertaking 
that the maturity proceeds of the term deposit will be utilised for their 
business in India within 3 months of maturity. However, such facility may 
not be extended to shipping/airline companies. 
ix. In case a BO/LO has been established and continues to exist without 
approval of the Reserve Bank, such BO/LO may approach their AD 
Category-I bank to regularise their offices under FEMA 1999, even if 
permission of Reserve Bank was not required as per the regulations 
existing at th e time of setting up of the office. Such cases may be 
brought to the notice of Reserve Bank immediately for allotment of UIN. 
The foreign entities who may have established LO or BO with the 
permission from the Government of India in the pre- FEMA period shall

[Page 17]
17 
 
also approach their AD Category–I bank with a copy of the said approval 
for allotment of a UIN by the Reserve Bank.  
x. Change in the name of the existing LO/BO may be permitted by the AD 
Category-I bank only if the non- resident entity changes its name wit hout 
change in ownership and if the application to this effect is received with 
the Board resolution for change of name and documents/certificate from 
ROC India showing change of name. The change in name of the BO/LO 
should be reported to FED, CO Cell, New  Delhi. Where change in name 
is requested on account of acquisitions or mergers of foreign entities 
involving change in ownership, the acquired entity or new entity is 
required to apply afresh by closing the existing entity. Foreign entities 
should note that the approvals are given by the Reserve Bank/AD 
Category-I bank after detailed scrutiny as per laid down guidelines and 
FDI policies and hence the approvals given to one foreign entity is not 
transferrable to another foreign entity. 
xi. Change in the Top Management or CEO/MD/CMD etc. of the B O/LO 
does not require prior approval from the Reserve Bank/AD Category -I 
bank. However, AD Category -I bank should be intimated about the 
same.

[Page 18]
18 
 
Annex A 
Format of the Letter of Comfort 
 
The Authorised Signatory, 
(Address of the Authorised Dealer Category-I bank) 
 
Dear Sir, 
Sub: Application for establishment of b ranch / liaison Office in India by our 
subsidiary / group company, M/s_________________________ 
 
You may kindly refer to the application made by our subsidiary / group company, 
M/s_____________________________to your office for establishing b ranch / l iaison 
office in India. 
 
2. In this connection, we, ______________________(the parent company /group 
company) undertake to provide the necessary financial support for our subsidiary / 
group company's operations’ as a branch / liaison office in India. Any liability that may 
arise due to the functioning of the b ranch/liaison office in India will be met by us (the 
parent company /group company ), in case of inability on part of the branch/ l iaison 
office to do so. 
 
3. We are also enclosing the financial background of our company in the form of our 
latest Audited Balance Sheet / Account Statement certified by a Certified Public 
Accountant.  
 
Yours faithfully, 
(                                  ) 
 
Authorised Representative of the parent company

[Page 19]
19 
 
Annex B 
Form FNC 
Application for establishment of b ranch office/liaison office/project office in 
India 
 
[This application form shall be completed and submitted to the AD Category -I 
bank designated by the applicant along with the documents mentioned in item 
(viii) of the Declaration.] 
 
Part I 
 
No. Details Particulars 
1. i. Full name and address of the applicant 
ii. Date and Place of incorporation / registration 
iii. Telephone Number(s) 
iv. Fax Number(s) 
v. E-mail ID 
  
2. i. Details of capital  
ii. Paid-up capital 
iii. Free Reserves/Retained earnings as per last 
audited Balance Sheet/Financial Statement 
iv. Intangible assets, if any 
  
3. Brief description of the activities of the applicant   
4. i. Value of goods imported fro m and / or exported 
to India by the applicant during each of the last 
three years: 
a. Imports from India  
b. Exports to India 
ii. Particulars of existing arrangements if any, for 
representing the company in India 
iii. Particulars of the proposed liaison/ branch office: 
a. Details of the activities/ services proposed 
to be undertaken/ rendered by the office 
b. Place where the office will be located

[Page 20]
20 
 
c. Phone number 
d. E-mail ID  
e. Expected number of employees (with 
number of foreigners) 
5. i. Name and address of the banker of the applic ant 
in the home country 
ii. Telephone & Fax Number 
iii. E-mail ID 
  
6. For Non-profit / Non-Government 
Organisations(NGOs): 
i. Details of activities carried out in the host country 
and other countries by the applicant 
organisation. 
i. Expected level of funding for operations in India. 
ii. Copies of the bye-laws, Articles of Association of 
the organisation. 
  
7.  For project offices: 
i. Reference no. and date of letter awarding the 
contract  
ii. Particulars of authority awarding the 
project/contract 
iii. Total amount of contract 
iv. Address/e-mail/telephone number/fax number of 
the project office 
v. Tenure of project office 
vi. Nature of project undertaken 
 
8. Any other information which the applicant company 
wishes to furnish in support of this application.

[Page 21]
21 
 
Part II - Additional information to be submitted by applicants where Reserve 
Bank’s approval is necessary under Regulation 5 of Notification No. FEMA 22 
(R)/2016-RB dated March 31, 2016 
 
I. Details in respect of Company/ Firm 
Sr. 
No. 
Full 
name of 
the 
company 
Date of 
registration 
of the 
company 
Address of 
Head Office, 
Regional 
Office and 
Registered 
Office 
Previous 
name of 
the 
company, 
if any 
Details of 
earlier 
approvals or 
rejections, if 
any, (ref. no. 
and date) 
Enclosed 
application for 
branch 
office/liaison 
office/project 
office prescribed 
by DEA 
 
II. Details in respect of Directors/Key Executives 
Sr. 
No. 
Full name 
of Board of 
Directors 
and Key 
Executives 
(wherever 
applicable) 
Present 
position 
held 
with 
date 
(since 
when) 
Date 
of 
Birth 
 
Parentage 
 
Present 
and 
permanent 
address 
 
Nation
ality 
 
Passport 
Nos. and 
issue 
date 
 
Contact 
address 
and 
telephone 
number 
 
III. Details of shareholders of applicant company (All firms/companies/entities/ 
individuals having shareholding more than 10 %) 
Sr. 
No 
Full 
name 
Parentage 
Father/ 
Mother 
Date 
of 
birth 
Permanent 
address 
Present 
address 
Present 
position 
held 
Nationality 
(if holding 
dual 
nationality, 
both must be 
clearly 
mentioned) 
% of 
shares 
held in 
the 
company 
 
 
IV. Details of criminal cases, if any, against the company / Director (s): 
a. Name; address and registration number of the company                       : 
b. Name and address of owners, promoters and directors of the company:

[Page 22]
22 
 
c. Is the company owners, promoters or directors listed above, the subject of any 
1. Preventive detention proceedings : Yes/No 
2. Criminal proceedings                    :  Yes/No 
d. If, Yes, please provide the following details 
1. Detention/case/FIR/warrant number 
2. Police station/District/Agency 
3. Section of law 
4. Name and place of the court 
5. The above mentioned details are in respect of both India and 
any other foreign country 
DECLARATION 
We hereby declare that: 
i. The particulars given above are true and correct to the best of our knowledge and 
belief. 
ii. Our activities in India would be confined to the activities indicated in column 4(iii) 
(a)/7 (vi)  above. We will not undertake either  partly or fully, any activity that is 
covered under Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010 (FCRA) and we 
understand that any misrepresentation made or false information furnished by us in 
this behalf would render the approval granted und er the Foreign Exchange 
Management (Establishment in India of a branch office or liaison office or a project 
office or any other place of business) Regulations, 2016, automatically as void ab 
initio and such approval by the Reserve Bank shall stand withdra wn without any 
further notice.4  
iii. If we shift the office to another place within the city, we shall intimate the 
designated AD Category - I bank. In the event of shifting the office to any other city 
in India, prior approval of the AD Category-I bank will be obtained.  
                                                           
4 Inserted vide Notification FEMA 22(R)(1)/2018-RB dated August 31, 2018 and AP (DIR Series) Circular No 20 
dated February 27, 2019.

[Page 23]
23 
 
iv. We will abide by the terms and conditions that may be stipulated by the 
Government of India / Reserve Bank of India / designated AD Category -  I bank , 
from time to time. 
v. We hereby commit that we are agreeable to a report / opinion sought from our 
bankers abroad by the Government of India /Reserve Bank. 
vi. We understand that the approval, if granted, is from FEMA angle only. Any other 
approvals / clearances, statutory or otherwise, required from any other 
Government Authority/ Department/ Ministry w ill be obtained before 
commencement of operations in India.  
vii. We have no objection to the Reserve Bank placing the details of approval in public 
domain. 
viii. We enclose the following documents: 
a. Copy of the Certificate of Incorporation / Registration; Memorandum of 
Association and Articles of Association attested by the Notary Public in the 
country of registration. 
[If the original Certificate is in a language other than in English, the same 
may be translated into English and notarized as above and cross 
verified/attested by the Indian Embassy/ Consulate in the home country]. 
b. Audited Balance sheet of the applicant company for the last three/ five years 
in case of branch office/liaison office respectively. 
[If the applicants’ home country laws/regulations do not ins ist on auditing of 
accounts, an Account Statement certified by a Certified Public Accountant 
(CPA) or any Registered Accounts Practitioner by any name, clearly 
showing the net worth may be submitted] 
c. Bankers' Report from the applicant’s banker in the host country / country of 
registration showing the number of years the applicant has had banking 
relations with that bank.

[Page 24]
24 
 
 
d. Power of Attorney in favour of signatory of Form FNC in case the Head of 
the overseas entity is not signing the Form FNC. 
 
 
 
(Signature of Authorised Official of the Applicant Company) 
Name : 
Designation : 
Place : 
Date :

[Page 25]
25 
 
Annex C  
Permitted activities for a branch office in India of a person resident outside India 
Normally, the branch office should be engaged in the activity in which t he parent 
company is engaged.  
i. Export/import of goods.  
ii. Rendering professional or consultancy services  (other than 
practice of legal profession in any matter).  
iii. Carrying out research work  in which the parent company is 
engaged.  
iv. Promoting technical or financial collaborations between Indian 
companies and parent or overseas group company.  
v. Representing the parent company in India and acting as buying/ 
selling agent in India.  
vi. Rendering services in Information Technology and development 
of software in India.  
vii. Rendering technical support to the products supplied by  
parent/group companies.  
viii. Representing a foreign airline/shipping company. 
 
Permitted activities for a liaison office in India of a person resident outside India 
i. Representing the parent company / group companies in India.     
ii. Promoting export / import from / to India.    
iii. Promoting technical/ financial collaborations between parent / group 
companies and companies in India.  
iv. Acting as a communication channel between the parent company and 
Indian companies. 
 
The Hon’ble Supreme Court vide its interim orders dated July 4, 2012 and September 
14, 2015, passed in the case of the Bar Council of India vs A.K. Balaji & Ors., has 
directed RBI not to grant any permission to any foreign law firm, on or after the date of 
the said interim order, for opening of LO in India.

[Page 26]
26 
 
 
The Hon’ble Supreme Court has while disposing of the case, held that advocates 
enrolled under the Advocates Act, 1961 alone are entitled to practice law in India and 
that foreign law firms/companies or foreign lawyers cannot practice profession of law 
in India. As such, foreign law firms/companies or foreign lawyers or any other person 
resident outside India, are not permitted to establish any branch office, project office, 
liaison office or other place of business in India for the purpose of practicing legal 
profession. Accordingly, AD Category – I banks are directed not to grant any approval 
to any branch office, project office, liaison office or other place of business in India 
under FEMA for the purpose of practicing legal profession in India. Further, they shall 
bring to the notice of the Reserve Bank in case any such violation of the provisions of 
the Advocates Act comes to their notice.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
5 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No 07 dated November 23, 2020.

[Page 27]
27 
APPENDIX 
L
ist of notifications/circulars which have been consolidated in this Master Direction 
Sl No Notification/ AP (DIR Series) Circular Date 
1 Notification No. FEMA 22(R)/2016-RB March 31, 2016 
2 AP DIR Series Circular No.69 May 12, 2016 
3 Notification No. FEMA 22(R)(1)/2018-RB August 31, 2018 
4 AP DIR Series Circular No.  20 February 27, 2019 
5 Notification No. FEMA 22(R)(2)/2019-RB January 21, 2019 
6 AP DIR Series Circular No. 27 March 28, 2019 
7 AP DIR Series Circular No.07 November 23, 2020
