[Page 1]
1  
  
 
    RESERVE BANK OF INDIA    
www.rbi.org.in 
      
RBI/FED/2024-25/121  
FED Master Direction No.15/2024-25             July 24, 2024 
                                                                                                  (Updated as on April 01, 2026) 
                                                                                         (Updated as on November 28, 2025) 
 
To 
All Authorised Dealer Category – I banks 
Madam/Sir  
Master Direction - Overseas Investment 
Overseas Investments by persons resident in India are governed by the provisions of Foreign 
Exchange Management (Overseas Investment) Rules, 2022 (OI Rules) notified by the Central 
Government vide Notification No. G.S.R. 646(E) dated August 22, 2022 and Foreign Exchange 
Management (Overseas Investment) Regulations, 2022 (OI Regulations)  notified by the 
Reserve Bank vide Notification No. FEMA 400/2022-RB dated August 22, 2022. 
2. In terms of Rule 3 of OI Rules, the Reserve Bank is empowered to administer these Rules 
and to issue regulations and directions/ circulars as it may deem necessary, for the effective 
implementation of the provisions of these R ules. The Reserve Bank, therefore, issues 
directions to Authorised Persons under Section 11 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act 
(FEMA), 1999. These directions lay down the modalities as to how the foreign exchange 
business has to be conducted by the Authorised Persons with their customers/ constituents 
with a view to implementing the OI Rules and the OI Regulations. 
3. Instructions issued on Overseas Investment by persons resident in India have been 
compiled in this Master Direction. The list of underlying circulars  which form the basis of this 
Master Direction is furnished in the Annex I . Reporting instructions related to Overseas 
Investment are provided in Part VIII of Master Direction no. 18 on ‘Reporting under Foreign 
Exchange Management Act, 1999’ dated January 01, 2016 . A D Category -I Banks may bring 
the contents of these Directions to the notice of their customers / constituents concerned.

[Page 2]
2 
 
4. This Master Direc tion has been issued under sections 10(4) and 11(1) of the Foreign 
Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and are without prejudice to permissions/ 
approvals, if any, required under any other law. 
Yours faithfully  
 
  
(N Senthil Kumar) 
Chief General Manager

[Page 3]
3 
 
Master Direction - Overseas Investment  
These Directions shall be called Master Direction - Overseas Investment which shall be read 
with the provisions contained in Foreign Exchange Management (Overseas Investment) 
Rules, 2022  (hereinafter referred to as “OI Rules”) and Foreign Exchange Management 
(Overseas Investment) Regulations, 2022 (hereinafter referred to as “OI Regulations”).   
INDEX  
Para. No.  Particulars  Page No. 
1  Part I - Definitions and associated details  4  
   Part II – General provisions  7  
2  Exemptions from applicability of OI Rules/Regulations/Directions  7 
3  Permission for making overseas investment  7 
4  Approval from the Central Government  8 
5  Approval from the Reserve Bank  8 
6  No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the lender bank/regulatory 
body/investigative agency  
8 
7  Rights issue and bonus shares  9 
8  Acquisition of a foreign entity through bidding or tender procedure  9 
9  ODI in startups  9 
10  Acquisition or transfer by way of deferred payment  10 
11  Mode of Payment  10 
12  Pricing Guidelines  11 
13  Transfer or liquidation  11 
14  Restructuring  11 
15  Opening of Foreign Currency Account abroad by an Indian entity  12 
16  Obligations of the Person Resident in India  12 
17  Reporting  12 
18  Delay in Reporting  13 
19  Restriction on further financial commitment or transfer  14 
20  Restrictions and prohibitions  15 
  Part III – Specific provisions  15 
21  Financial commitment by an Indian entity  15 
22  Overseas investment by resident individuals  19 
23  Overseas investment by a person resident in India, other than an Indian 
entity or a resident individual  
20 
24  Overseas investment in an IFSC in India by a person resident in India  21 
25  Acquisition or Transfer of Immovable Property outside India  21 
  Part IV - Other Operational Instructions to AD banks  22 
26  Designated banks  22 
27  Overseas investment under OI Rules/Regulations  22 
28  General procedural instructions for online reporting  23 
-  Appendix A: Request Form for creation of user id in the OID Application 25  
-  Annex I: List of Circulars which have been consolidated in this Master 
Direction 
26

[Page 4]
4 
 
  
 
Part I - Definitions and associated details  
1. Reference shall be made to OI Rules and OI Regulations for the definitions of the various 
terms used in these directions. However, the major terms are reiterated and elaborated below:  
(i) “foreign entity”  - the extant concept of Joint Venture (JV) and Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary (WOS) is substituted under the new regime with the concept of foreign entity, which 
means an entity formed or registered or incorporated outside India, including in International 
Financial Services Centre (IFSC) in India, that has limited liability. ‘Limited liability’ would mean 
a structure such as a limited liability company, limited liability partnership, etc . where the 
liability of the person resident in India is clear and limited. In case of a foreign entity being an 
investment fund or vehicle, duly regulated by the regulator for the financial sector in the host 
jurisdiction and set up as a trust outside India, the liability of the person resident in India shall 
be clear and limited not exceeding the interest or contribution in the fund in any manner. 
Further, the trustee of such fund shall be a person resident outside India.   
(ii) “strategic sector” shall include energy and natural resources sectors such as Oil, 
Gas, Coal, Mineral Ores, submarine cable system and start-ups and any other sector or sub-
sector as deemed fit by the Central Government. The restriction of limited liability structure of 
foreign entity shall not be mandatory for entities with core activity in any strategic sector. 
Accordingly, Overseas Direct Investment (ODI) can be made in such sectors in unincorporated 
entities as well. An Indian entity is also permitted to participate in a consortium with other 
international operators to construct and maintain submarine cable systems on co-ownership 
basis. AD banks may allow remittances for ODI in strategic sector after ensuring that Indian 
entity has obtained necessary permission from the competent authority, wherever applicable.  
(iii) “control” means the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the 
management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually or in 
concert, directly or indirectly, including by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or 
shareholders’ agreements or voting agreements that entitle them to ten percent or more of 
voting rights or in any other manner in the entity.  
(iv) “Indian entity” – the extant concept of Indian party (IP) where all the investors from 
India in a foreign entity were together considered as IP , has been substituted under the new 
regime with the concept of Indian entity where each investor entity shall be separately 
considered as an Indian entity. Indian entity shall mean a company defined under the 
Companies Act, 2013 or a body corporate incorporated by any law for the time being in force 
or a Limited Liability Partnership formed under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 or a 
partnership firm registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.

[Page 5]
5 
 
(v) “subsidiary”/ “step down subsidiary (SDS)”  of a foreign entity means an entity in 
which the foreign entity has control and the structure of such subsidiary/SDS shall comply with 
the structural requirements of a foreign entity, i.e., such subsidiary/SDS shall also have limited 
liability where the for eign entity’s core activity is not in strategic sector. The investee entities 
of the foreign entity where such foreign entity does not have control (as defined above) shall 
not be treated as SDSs and therefore need not be reported henceforth.   
(vi) “Overseas D irect Investment (ODI)” means (i) acquisition of any unlisted equity 
capital or subscription as a part of the Memorandum of Association of a foreign entity, or (ii) 
investment in 10% or more of the paid-up equity capital of a listed foreign entity, or (iii ) 
investment with control where investment is less than 10% of the paid- up equity capital of a 
listed foreign entity.   
Explanation: Once an investment in a foreign entity is classified as ODI, the investment 
shall continue to be treated as ODI even if suc h investment falls below 10% of the paid-up 
equity capital or the investor loses control in the foreign entity.   
(vii) “equity capital”  means equity shares or perpetual capital or instruments that are 
irredeemable or contribution to non -debt capital of a foreign entity, which is in the nature of 
fully and compulsorily convertible instruments. Accordingly, any instrument which is 
redeemable or non-convertible or optionally convertible shall be treated as debt for the 
purpose of OI Rules/Regulations/Directions.  
(viii) “financial commitment” by a person resident in India means the aggregate amount 
of investment by way of ODI, debt other than Overseas Portfolio Investment (OPI) and non-
fund based facility or facilities extended by it to all foreign entities. An Indian enti ty may lend 
or invest in any debt instruments issued by a foreign entity or extend non-fund based 
commitment to or on behalf of a foreign entity, including overseas SDSs of such Indian entity, 
subject to the following conditions:   
a) the Indian entity is eligible to make ODI;  
b) the Indian entity has made ODI in the foreign entity;   
c) the Indian entity has acquired control in the foreign entity on or before the date of 
making such financial commitment.   
(ix) “Overseas Portfolio Investment (OPI)” means investment, other than ODI, in foreign 
securities. The following is further provided:  
a) OPI shall not be made in:   
i. any unlisted debt instruments; or   
ii. any security which is issued by a person resident in India who is not in an IFSC; or  
iii. any derivatives unless otherwise permitted by Reserve Bank; or   
iv. any commodities including Bullion Depository Receipts (BDRs).

[Page 6]
6 
 
b) OPI by a person resident in India in the listed equity capital of a listed entity, even after its 
delisting, shall continue to be treated as OPI until any further investment is made in the 
entity, i.e., any further investment made in the equity capital of the foreign entity after its 
delisting shall be made as ODI.   
c) A listed Indian company may make OPI, including by way of reinvestment, in accordance 
with schedule II of the OI Rules. ‘Reinvestment’ means that the OPI proceeds are 
exempted from repatriation provisions as long as such proceeds are reinvested within the 
time specified for realisation and repatriation as per Notification No. FEMA 9(R)/2015 -RB 
namely, Foreign Exchange Management (Realisation, repatriation and surrender of foreign 
exchange) Regulations, 2015.   
d) An unlisted Indian entity may make OPI in accordance with schedule II of the OI Rules.  
e) 1The investment (including sponsor contribution) in units or any other instrument (by 
whatever name called) issued by an investment fund overseas, duly regulated by the 
regulator for the financial sector in the host jurisdiction, shall be treated as OPI. 
Accordingly, in jurisdictions other than IFSCs, listed Indian companies and re sident 
individuals may make such investment. Whereas in IFSCs, an unlisted Indian entity also 
may make such OPI in units or any other instrument (by whatever name called) issued by 
an investment fund or vehicle, in terms of schedule V of the OI Rules subject to limits, as 
applicable. 
Explanation: ‘investment fund overseas, duly regulated’ for the purpose of this para shall 
also include funds whose activities are regulated by financial sector regulator of host 
country or jurisdiction through a fund manager. 
f) Resident individuals may make OPI within the overall limit for Liberalised Remittance 
Scheme (LRS) in terms of schedule III of the OI Rules. Further, shares or interest acquired 
by the resident individuals by way of sweat equity shares or minimum qualification shares 
or under Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)/ Employee Benefits Scheme up to 10% 
of the paid up capital/stock, whether listed or unlisted, of the foreign entity and without 
control shall also qualify as OPI. 
g) Any investment made overseas in accordance with schedule IV of the OI Rules in 
securities as stipulated by SEBI by Mutual Funds (MFs), Venture Capital Funds (VCFs) 
and Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) registered with SEBI shall be considered as OPI.  
(x) “Listed equity capital or instrument” - Wherever a reference is made in these directions 
or OI Rules or OI Regulations to listed equity capital or a listed instrument overseas, it shall 
mean that such equity capital or instrument, as the case may be, shall be listed on a recognised 
stock exchange outside India.  
 
1 Para substituted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated June 7, 2024

[Page 7]
7 
 
  
Part II – General provisions  
2. Exemptions from applicability of OI Rules/Regulations/Directions  
The provisions contained in the OI Rules/Regulations/Directions shall not apply, and general 
permission shall be available for acquisition or transfer of any investment outside India made 
as per rule 4 of the OI Rules.  
 
3. Permission for making overseas investment  
(1) A person resident in India may make or transfer any investment or financial 
commitment outside India under general permission/automatic route subject to the provisions 
contained in the OI Rules, OI Regulations and these directions. Accordingly, overseas 
investment may be made in a foreign entity engaged in a bona fide business activity, directly 
or through SDS/special purpose vehicle (SPV).   
(2) The person intending to make any financial commitment shall fill up the Form FC as 
provided in the “ Master Direction – Reporting under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 
1999” duly supported by the requisite documents and approach the designated AD bank for 
making the investment/remittance.   
(3) 2In respect of any case under the approval route, the applicant shall approach their 
designated AD bank who shall forward the proposal to the concerned Regional Office of the 
Reserve Bank after due scrutiny and with its specific recommendations. The application for 
overseas investment under the approval route would be submitted to the concerned Regional 
Office of the Reserve Bank through the relevant form available on the PRAVAAH portal 
(https://pravaah.rbi.org.in/pravaah). The designated AD bank before forwarding the proposal 
shall submit the relevant sections of the Form FC in the online OID application and the 
transaction number generated by the application shall be mentioned in their reference. The 
following documents shall be submitted along with the proposal:  
• Background and brief details of the transaction.  
• Reason(s) for seeking approval mentioning the extant FEMA provisions.  
• Observations of the designated AD bank with respect to the following: 
 o  Prima facie viability of the foreign entity;  
o Benefits which may accrue to India through such investment;  
o Financial position and business track record of the Indian entity and the foreign 
entity;  
o Any other material observation.  
 
2 Para amended vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 02 dated April 01, 2026

[Page 8]
8 
 
• Recommendations of the designated AD bank with confirmation that the applicant’s 
board resolution or resolution from an equivalent body, as applicable, for the proposed 
transaction(s) is in place.  
• Diagrammatic representation of the organisational structure indicating all the 
subsidiaries of the Indian entity horizontally and vertically with their stake (direct and 
indirect) and status (whether operating company or SPV).  
• Valuation certificate for the foreign entity (if applicable).  
• Other relevant documents properly numbered, indexed and flagged.  
  
4.  Approval from the Central Government  
The applications for overseas investment/financial commitment i n Pakistan/other jurisdiction 
as may be advised by the Central Government from time to time or in strategic sectors/specific 
geographies in accordance with rule 9 of OI Rules shall be forwarded by the AD banks from 
their constituents to the Reserve Bank as per the laid down procedure for onward submission 
to the Central Government.  
  
5. Approval from the Reserve Bank  
Financial commitment by an Indian entity, exceeding USD 1 (one) billion (or its equivalent) in 
a financial year shall require prior approval of the Reserve Bank even when the total financial 
commitment of the Indian entity is within the eligible limit under the automatic route.  
  
6. No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the lender bank/regulatory body/investigative 
agency 
(1) Any person resident in India having an account appearing as a Non-Performing Asset 
(NPA) or is classified as wilful defaulter or is under investigation by a financial sector regulator/ 
investigative agency shall obtain an NOC from the lender bank/regulator y body/investigative 
agency concerned in accordance with rule 10 of OI Rules, before making financial commitment 
or undertaking disinvestment.   
(2) Where an Indian entity has already issued a guarantee in accordance with the FEMA 
provisions before an investigation has begun or account is classified as NPA/wilful defaulter 
and subsequently is required to honour such contractual obligation, such remittance due to 
the invocation will not constitute fresh financial commitment and hence NOC shall not be 
required.

[Page 9]
9 
 
7. Rights issue and bonus shares  
(1) A person resident in India, who has acquired and continues to hold equity capital in a 
foreign entity in accordance with the OI Rules/Regulations may acquire equity capital through 
exercise of rights or by way of bonus shares in accordance with rule 7 of the OI Rules.   
(2) The acquisition of equity capital through exercise of such rights shall be reported in 
Form FC. Where such person does not exercise the rights but renounces such rights in favour 
of a person resident in India or a person resident outside India, such renouncement shall not 
require reporting. Further, the acquisition of bonus shares shall not be treated as fresh financial 
commitment and will not require reporting.  
  
8. Acquisition of a foreign entity through bidding or tender procedure  
(1) AD banks may, on being approached by an eligible person resident in India, allow 
remittance towards Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) after obtaining Form A2 duly filled in or may 
issue bid bond guarantee on their behalf in accordance with regulation 9(5) of OI Regulations 
for participation in bidding or tender procedure for acquisition of a foreign entity. On winning 
the bid, AD banks may facilitate further remittances to the foreign entity so acquired after 
obtaining Form FC duly filled in and report such financial commitment.   
(2) AD banks, while permitting remittance towards EMD should advise the Indian 
entity/investor that in case they are not successful in the bid, they shall repatriate the amount 
remitted in accordance with Notification No. FEMA 9(R)/2015-RB.  
(3) In cases where such a person resident in India, after being successful in the bid/tender 
decides not to proceed further with the investment, AD banks shall ensure the bona fides of 
transaction while permitting the invocation of bid-bond guarantee or forfeiture of EMD.  
  
9. ODI in startups  
Any ODI in startups in accordance with rule 19(2) of OI Rules shall not be made out of funds 
borrowed from others. The AD bank, before facilitating the transaction, shall obtain necessary 
certificate in this regard from the statutory auditors/chartered accountant of the Indian 
entity/investor.  
 
10. Acquisition or transfer by way of deferred payment    
(1) AD bank shall verify the bona fides of the transactions from the underlying 
agreement/documents in case of deferment of payment of consideration in accordance with 
regulation 7 of OI Regulations. The period of deferment shall be defined upfront. In case the 
remittance towards acquisition of equity capital is to be made post subscription to 
Memorandum of Association, the period within which such remittance is to be made shall be

[Page 10]
10 
 
defined in the underlying agreement/documents/applicable laws else the remittance shall be 
made on or before acquisition of/setting up of the foreign entity.    
(2) The part of the payment towards consideration deferred by the person resident in India 
shall be treated as non-fund based financial commitment by such person and shall be reported 
accordingly. Subsequent payments towards deferred consideration shall be reported in Form 
FC as conversion of non-fund based financial commitment to equity. The valuation in 
accordance with pricing guidelines, wherever applicable, shall be done upfront.  
  
11. Mode of Payment   
The mode of payment by a person resident in India for making overseas investment shall be 
in accordance with regulation 8 of the OI Regulations. It is further provided that:  
(i) Overseas investment by way of cash is not permitted.  
(ii) In terms of Regulation 5(B) of Notification No. FEMA 10(R)/2015-RB, namely, Foreign  
Exchange Management (Foreign Currency Accounts by a resident in India) Regulations, 
2015, an Indian entity can make remittances to its office/branch outside India only for the 
purpose of normal business operations of such branch or office. Accordingly, no 
remittance shall be made by any Indian entity to its branch/office outside India for making 
any overseas investment.  
(iii) A person resident in India shall not make any payment on behalf of any foreign entity 
other than by way of financial commitment as permitted under the OI Rules/Regulations.  
(iv) Any investment/financial commitment in Nepal and Bhutan shall be done in a manner as 
provided in Notification No. FEMA 14(R)/2016-RB , namely, Foreign Ex change 
Management (Manner of Receipt and Payment) Regulations, 2016.  All dues receivable 
on investments (or financial commitment) made in freely convertible currencies, as well 
as their sale/winding up proceeds are required to be repatriated to India in freely 
convertible currencies only.   
  
12. Pricing Guidelines   
(1) The AD bank, before facilitating an overseas investment related transaction, shall 
ensure compliance with the provisions contained in rule 16 of OI Rules. With respect to the  
documents to be taken by the AD bank, they shall be guided by their board approved policy, 
which may, inter alia, provide for taking into consideration the valuation as per any 
internationally accepted pricing methodology for valuation. The AD bank shall put in place a 
board approved policy within two months from the date of these directions3.   
 
3 Directions means FEM(OI) Directions, 2022 issued vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 12 dated August 
22, 2022

[Page 11]
11 
 
(2) Such policy may also provide for scenarios where the valuation may not be insisted 
upon, such as (i) transfer on account of merger, amalgamation or demerger or li quidation, 
where the price has been approved by the competent Court/Tribunal as per the laws in India 
and/or the host jurisdiction or (ii) price is readily available on a recognised stock exchange, 
etc. The policy shall also clearly provide for additional documents such as the audited financial 
statements of the foreign entity, etc.  that may be taken by the AD banks for ascertaining the 
bona fides in cases involving write-off of the investment.   
  
13. Transfer or liquidation   
A person resident in India holding equity capital in accordance with OI Rules may transfer such 
investment in accordance with rule 17 of OI Rules. It is clarified that where the transferor is 
required to repatriate all the dues before disinvestment, such requirement shall not apply to  
the dues that do not arise on account of investment in equity or debt like export receivables, 
etc.  
  
14. Restructuring   
(1) A person resident in India who has made ODI in a foreign entity, may permit 
restructuring of the balance sheet by such foreign entity in accordance with rule 18 of OI Rules. 
The aggregate investment in both the equity and debt of the foreign entity shall be taken into 
consideration for computing the proportionate amount of accumulated losses. However, in 
case the restructuring involves only equity, investment only in equity of the foreign entity may 
be taken into consideration for computing proportionate losses.   
(2) The certificate required to be furnished in accordance with rule 18 of OI Rules shall 
mention the amount of accumulated losses as per the audited balance sheet of the foreign 
entity, the proportionate amount of accumulated losses based upon the share of the Indian 
entity/investor, the amount of diminution in the value of the outstanding dues towards the 
Indian entity/investor post restructuring and that such diminution does not exceed the 
proportionate amount of accumulated losses. 
(3) These provisions shall not be used where the assets are simply revalued in the books 
of the Indian entity without any restructuring of the balance sheet of the foreign entity.   
  
15. Opening of Foreign Currency Account abroad by an Indian entity  
An Indian entity may open, hold and maintain Foreign Currency Account (FCA) abroad for the 
purpose of making ODI in accordance with the provisions contained in Regulation 5 (D) of 
Notification No. FEMA.10(R)/2015-RB, namely, Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign  
Currency Accounts by a resident in India) Regulations, 2015.

[Page 12]
12 
 
   
16. Obligations of the Person Resident in India   
(1) A person resident in India making ODI shall meet the obligations laid down in regulation 
9 of OI Regulations.  
(2) A person resident in India acquiring equity capital in a foreign entity, which is reckoned 
as ODI, shall submit the evidence of investment as per regulation 9(1) of OI Regulations to the 
AD bank within six months, failing which the funds remitted overseas shall be repatriated within 
the said period of six months. The evidence of investment shall be retained by the designated 
AD bank, who shall monitor the receipt of required documents and satisfy themselves about 
the bona fides of the documents so received.   
(3) Form FC shall be submitted along with requisite documents to AD bank for obtaining 
UIN on or before making initial ODI. The AD bank after due verification shall report the details 
in the OID application for allotment of UIN. Any remittance towards a foreign entity shall be 
facilitated by the AD bank only after obtaining the necessary UIN for such entity. The allotment 
of UIN does not constitute an approval from the Reserve Bank for the investment made/to be 
made in the foreign entity. The issue of UIN only signifies taking on record of the investment 
for maintaining the database. Further, with effect from June 01, 2012, an auto generated e-
mail giving the details of UIN allotted to the foreign entity is forwarded to the AD bank/Indian 
investor as confirmation of allotment of UIN, and no separate letter is issued by the Reserve 
Bank.  
  
17. Reporting   
(1)  All reporting with respect to overseas investment by a person resident in India shall be 
made in accordance with regulation 10 of OI Regulations through the designated AD bank as 
per the revised reporting forms and instructions contained in the “Master Direction – Reporting 
under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999” . The reporting forms can be downloaded 
from Reserve Bank’s website www.rbi.org.in. Any incomplete filing shall be treated as non-
submission.  
(2)  Any acquisition of foreign securities through conversion of Indian Depository Receipts 
(IDRs) shall be duly reported as ODI or OPI, as applicable.  
(3) The Annual Performance Report (APR) shall be certified by a chartered accountant 
where the statutory audit is not applicable, including in case of resident individuals. It is also 
clarified that where APR is required to be filed jointly, either one investor may be authorised 
by other investors for filing APR, or such persons may jointly file the APR.  
(4) A resident individual making overseas investment must comply with the reporting 
requirements as provided under the OI Regulations and reporting shall also be done as

[Page 13]
13 
 
provided under the LRS where such investment is reckoned towards the LRS limit. Acquisition 
of foreign securities by way of inheritance or gift in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 
III of OI Rules shall not be reckoned towards the LRS limit and hence, shall not require 
reporting under LRS.   
  
18. Delay in Reporting   
(1) In case a person res ident in India has made a delay in filing/submitting the requisite 
form/return/document, such person may file/submit the requisite form/return/ document, etc. 
and pay the Late Submission Fee (LSF) through the designated AD bank in accordance with 
regulation 11 of OI Regulations.  
(2) The LSF for delay in reporting of overseas investment related transactions shall be 
calculated as per the following matrix:   
Sr. 
No.  Type of Reporting delays  LSF Amount (INR)  
1  Form ODI Part -II/ APR, FLA Returns, Form OPI, 
evidence of investment or any other return which 
does not capture flows or any other periodical 
reporting  
7500  
2  Form ODI-Part I, Form ODI-Part III, Form FC, or any 
other return which captures flows or returns which 
capture reporting of non-fund based transactions or 
any other transactional reporting  
[7500 + (0.025% × A × n)]  
Notes:  
a) “n” is the number of years of delay in submission rounded-upwards to the nearest 
month and expressed up to 2 decimal points.   
b) “A” is the amount involved in the delayed reporting.  
c) LSF amount is per return.   
d) Maximum LSF amount will be limited to 100 per cent of ‘A’ and will be rounded upwards 
to the nearest hundred.  
e) Where an advice has been issued for payment of LSF and such LSF is not paid within 
30 days, such advice shall be considered as null and void and any LSF received 
beyond this period shall not be accepted. If the applicant subsequently approaches for 
payment of LSF for the same delayed reporting, the date of receipt of such application 
shall be treated as the reference date for the purpose of calculation of LSF.  
f) The option of LSF shall be available up to three years from the due date of 
reporting/submission under OI Regulations. The option of LSF shall also be available

[Page 14]
14 
 
for delayed reporting/submissions under the Notification No. FEMA 120/2004-RB  and 
earlier corresponding regulations, up to three years from the date of notification of OI 
Regulations.  
g) In case a person resident in India responsible for submitting the evidence of investment 
or filing any forms/returns/reports, etc. as per OI Regulations/earlier corresponding 
regulations, neither makes such submission/filing within the specified time nor makes 
such submission/filing along with LSF as provided in regulation 11 of OI Regulations, 
such person shall be liable for penal action under the provisions of FEMA, 1999.   
(3) The LSF may be paid by way of a demand draft drawn in favour of “Reserve Bank of 
India” and payable at the Regional Office concerned (in accordance with UIN mapping given 
in the table below).   
  
Sr.No  UIN with prefix  UIN mapped to  
1.  AH  RO Ahmedabad  
2.  BG  RO Bengaluru  
3.  BL or BY or PJ  RO Mumbai  
4.  BN or CA or GA or GH  RO Kolkata  
5.  CG or JM or JR or KA or ND or 
PT or WR  
RO New Delhi  
6.  HY  RO Hyderabad  
7.  KO or MA  RO Chennai  
   
   
19.  Restriction on further financial commitment or transfer  
AD bank shall not facilitate any outward remittance/further financial commitment by a person 
resident in India towards a foreign entity until any delay in reporting is regularised and may be 
guided by regulation 12 of OI Regulations.  
  
20. Restrictions and prohibitions  
(1) AD bank shall not facilitate any transaction in respect of any foreign entity engaged in 
an activity mentioned in rule 19(1) of OI Rules or located in countries/ jurisdictions as advised 
by the Central Government under rule 9(2) of OI Rules. It is clarified that financial products 
linked to Indian Rupee shall include non-deliverable trades involving foreign currency -INR 
exchange rates, stock indices linked to Indian market, etc.   
(2) The financial commitment by a person resident in India in a foreign entity that has 
invested or invests into India at the time of making such financial commitment or at any time 
thereafter, either directly or indirectly, resulting in a structure with more than two layers of

[Page 15]
15 
 
subsidiaries is not permitted in accordance with rule 19(3) of the OI Rules. It is provided that 
no further layer of subsidiary or subsidiaries shall be added to any structure existing with two 
or more layers of subsidiaries post notification of the OI Rules/Regulations.  
Note: It may be noted that subsidiary shall have the meaning as provided in the OI Rules i.e. 
an entity in which the foreign entity has control (which includes a stake of 10% or more in an 
entity as per the OI Rules).    
  
Part III – Specific provisions  
21. Financial commitment by an Indian entity  
An Indian entity, within the overall limit provided in schedule I of the OI Rules and subject to 
regulation 3 of OI Regulations, may make financial commitment by way of ODI as per schedule 
I of the OI Rules, financial commitment by way of debt as per regulation 4 of OI Regulations 
and non-fund based financial commitment as per regulations 5, 6 and 7 of OI Regulations. The 
following is further provided:   
(1) In case of swap of securities both the legs of transaction shall comply with FEMA 
provisions, as applicable.  
(2) In case of investment in foreign entity by a registered Partnership firm, it will be in order 
for individual partners to hold shares for and on behalf of the firm in the foreign entity if the 
host country regulations or operational requirements warrant such holdings.  
(3) Financial commitment by way of debt [regulation 4 of OI Regulations]- AD bank shall 
facilitate an outward remittance towards financial commitment by way of debt only after 
obtaining the necessary agreement/documents for ensuring the bona fides of the transaction.  
An Indian entity shall not lend directly to its overseas SDS. Further a resident individual shall 
not make financial commitment by way of debt.  
(4) It is provided with respect to financial commitment by way of Guarantee [regulation 5 
of OI Regulations] that-   
a) In the case of performance guarantee, time specified for the completion of the contract 
shall be treated as its validity period.   
b) No prior approval from the Reserve Bank shall be needed for remitting the funds from 
India on account of invocation of a performance guarantee extended in accordance with 
OI Rules/Regulations.   
c) Any guarantee, to the extent of the amount invoked, shall cease to be a part of the non-
fund based financial commitment but will be considered as financial commitment by 
way of debt. Such invocation shall be reported in Form FC.

[Page 16]
16 
 
d) Roll-over of guarantee shall not be treated as fresh financial commitment. However, 
such roll-over shall be reported in Form FC.  
e) A group company of the Indian entity may extend a guarantee in accordance with the 
OI Regulations if such group company is eligible to make ODI as per the OI Rules and 
such guarantee shall be counted towards the utilisation of the financial commitment limit 
of such group company and shall be reported by the group company concerned. In case 
of a resident individual promoter, the same shall be counted towar ds the financial 
commitment limit of the Indian entity and accordingly be reported by the Indian entity. 
The concept of utilising the net worth of the subsidiary/holding company by the Indian 
entity has been discontinued henceforth. Further, for computing the financial 
commitment limit of the group company, any fund-based exposure of such group 
company to the Indian entity or of the Indian entity to such group company, as the case 
may be, shall be deducted from the net worth of such group company.   
(5) The provisions related to financial commitment by way of pledge/charge [regulation 6 
of OI Regulations] are summarised below:  
 
Security by Indian 
entity  
In whose favour  Facility availed  Amount reckoned 
towards financial 
commitment  
A) Pledge the equity 
capital of the foreign 
entity /its SDS outside 
India.  
AD bank or a public 
financial institution in 
India or an overseas 
lender.  
Fund/non-fund based 
facilities for Indian 
entity.   
Nil.  
Fund/non-fund based  
facilities for any 
foreign entity/its SDSs 
outside India.  
The value of the 
pledge or the 
amount of the 
facility, whichever 
is less.   
A debenture trustee 
registered with SEBI in 
India.  
Fund based facilities 
for Indian entity.  
Nil.  
B) Create charge on its 
assets (other than A 
above) in India  
[including the assets of 
its group company or 
associate company, 
promoter and / or 
director].  
AD bank or a public 
financial institution in 
India or an overseas 
lender.  
Fund/non-fund based 
facility for any foreign 
entity/its SDS outside  
India  
The value of 
charge or the 
amount of the 
facility, whichever 
is less  
Overseas or Indian 
lender.  
fund/non-fund based 
facilities for Indian 
entity.  
Nil.  
C) Create charge on 
the assets outside 
India of the foreign 
entity/ its SDS outside 
India.  
An AD bank in India or 
a public financial 
institution in India.  
Fund/non-fund based 
facility for any foreign 
entity/its SDS outside 
India.   
The value of the 
charge or the 
amount of the 
facility, whichever 
is less.

[Page 17]
17 
 
Fund/non-fund based 
facility for Indian 
entity.  
Nil.  
a debenture trustee 
registered with SEBI in 
India.  
fund based facilities 
for Indian entity.  
Nil  
  
(6) Financial commitment by way of pledge/charge shall be subject to following conditions:  
a) The value of the pledge/charge or the amount of the facility, whichever is less, shall 
be reckoned towards the financial commitment limit provided such facility has not  
already been reckoned towards the limit prescribed;  
b) Overseas lender in whose favour such pledge/charge is created shall not be from 
any country or jurisdiction in which financial commitment is not permissible under the 
OI Rules;  
c) the creation/enforcement of such pledge/charge shall be in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of the Act or rules or regulations made, or directions issued 
thereunder;  
d) The assets on which charge is being created are not securitised;  
e) The period of charge, if not specified upfront, shall be co-terminus with the period of 
facility (like loan or other facility) for which charge has been created;  
f) in the event of enforcement of charge created on domestic assets, such domestic 
assets shall be transferred by way of sale to a person resident in India only;  
g) Wherever creation of charge involves pledge of shares of an Indian company in 
favour of an overseas lender, the pledge shall also be governed by the extant FEMA 
provisions contained in FEM (Non-Debt Instruments) Rules, 2019.  
(7) The provisions pertaining to ODI in financial services activity [paragraph 2 of schedule 
I and paragraph 2 of schedule V of OI Rules] are summarised below:  
 
Indian entity  ODI in foreign entity  Subject to the financial commitment limit,  
reporting and documentation as per the OI  
Rules/Regulations and other applicable 
provisions as under  
a)  Engaged  in  
Financial  
Services activity  
Engaged  in  Financial  
Services activity  
Subject to the provisions contained in 
paragraph 2(1) of schedule I of the OI Rules. 
Where such investment is in IFSC, the 
requisite approval by the financial services 
regulator concerned shall be decided within 45 
days from the date of receipt of application 
complete in all respects failing which it shall be 
deemed to be approved

[Page 18]
18 
 
Not engaged in Financial 
Services activity  
Subject to the guidelines issued by the 
respective regulator  
b) Not engaged in 
Financial  
Services activity  
Engaged in Financial 
Services activity except 
banking or insurance  
Indian entity has posted net profits during the 
preceding three financial years. However, an 
Indian entity not meeting 3- year profitability 
condition may make such ODI in a foreign 
entity in IFSC in India.   
Engaged in general and 
health insurance  
Apart from the 3 years profitability criteria, 
such insurance business is supporting the 
core activity undertaken overseas by such 
Indian entity. For instance, health insurance to 
support medical/hospital business, vehicle 
insurance to support the manufacturing/export 
of motor vehicles, etc.  
c) Overseas investment in any sector by banks and non-banking financial institutions regulated 
by the Reserve Bank shall be subject to such other conditions as may be stipulated by the 
regulatory department concerned of the Reserve Bank in this regard.  
d) A foreign entity will be considered to be engaged in the business of financial services activity 
if it undertakes an activity, which if carried out by an entity in India, requires registration with or 
is regulated by a financial sector regulator in India. 
 
(8) Limit of financial commitment shall be governed by paragraph 3 of schedule I of the OI 
rules. The following is further provided:  
a) Utilisation of the balances held in EEFC account, and the amount raised by issue of 
American Depository Receipts (ADR)/ Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) and ADR/ GDR 
stock-swap for making financial commitment shall also be reckoned towards the financial 
commitment limit. However, financial commitment made through such resources prior to the 
date of notification of the OI Rules/Regulations shall not be reckoned towards the limit.   
b) Where the proceeds from External Commercial Borrowings (ECB) are utilised for  
making financial commitment, the same shall be reckoned towards the financial commitment 
limit. However, only that part of the ECB shall be reckoned towards the financial commitment 
limit that exceeds the amount of the corresponding pledge or creation of charge on assets 
which has already been counted towards the financial commitment limit.   
  
22. Overseas investment by resident individuals   
With effect from August 05, 2013, resident individuals (single or in association with another 
resident individual or with an Indian entity) were permitted to make ODI. A resident individual 
may make overseas investment in accordance with schedule III of OI Rules. The following is 
further provided:

[Page 19]
19 
 
(1) Where a resident individual has made ODI without control in a foreign entity that 
subsequently acquires or sets-up a subsidiary/SDS, such resident individual shall not acquire 
control in such foreign entity.  
(2) Overseas investment by way of capitalisation, swap of securities, rights/bonus, gift, 
and inheritance shall be categorised as ODI or OPI based on the nature of the investment. 
However, where the investment, whether listed or unlisted, by way of sweat equity shares, 
minimum qualification shares and shares/interest under Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
(ESOP)/Employee Benefits Scheme does not exceed 10 per cent of the paid-up capital/stock 
of the foreign entity and does not lead to control, such Investment shall be categorised as OPI.  
(3) In case of swap of securities both the legs of the transaction shall comply with FEMA 
provisions, as applicable. However, where swap of securities results in acquisition of any 
equity capital which is not in conformity with the OI Rules/Regulations, e.g., ODI in foreign 
entity engaged in financial services activity, foreign entity having a subsidiary/SDS, etc., such 
equity capital must be disinvested within a period of six months from the date of such 
acquisition.  
(4) Resident individuals are not permitted to transfer any overseas investment by way of 
gift to a person resident outside India.   
(5) Shares/interest under ESOP/Employee Benefits Scheme - AD banks may allow 
remittances, towards acquisition of the shares/interest in an overseas entity under the scheme 
offered directly by the issuing entity or indirectly through a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) 
/SDS. Where the investment qualifies as OPI, the necessary reporting in Form OPI shall be 
done by the employer concerned in accordance with regulation 10(3) of OI Regulations. Where 
such investment qualifies as ODI, the resident individual concerned shall report the transaction 
in Form FC.  
(6) Foreign entities are permitted to repurchase the shares issued to residents in India 
under any ESOP Scheme provided (i) the shares were issued in accordance with the 
rules/regulations framed under FEMA, 1999, (ii) the shares are being repurchased in terms of 
the initial offer document, and (iii) necessary reporting is done through the AD bank.  
(7) Though there is no limit on the amount of remittance made towards acquisition of 
shares/interest under ESOP/Employee Benefits Scheme or acquisition of sweat equity shares, 
such remittances shall be reckoned towards the LRS limit of the person concerned.

[Page 20]
20 
 
23. Overseas investment by a person resident in India, other than an Indian entity or a 
resident individual   
A person resident in India, other than an Indian entity or a resident individual may make 
overseas investment in accordance with schedule IV of OI Rules. The following is further 
provided:   
(1) Mutual Funds (MFs) and Venture Capital Funds (VCFs)/Alternative Investment Funds 
(AIFs) registered with SEBI may, in accordance with paragraph 2 of schedule IV of OI Rules, 
invest overseas in securities as stipulated by SEBI within an overall cap of USD 7 billion and 
USD 1.5 billion, respectively. Further, a limited number of qualified MFs are permitted to invest 
cumulatively up to USD 1 billion in overseas Exchange Traded Funds, as may be permitted 
by SEBI. Such investment shall be considered as OPI irrespective of whether the securities 
are listed or not.  
(2) MFs/VCFs/AIFs desirous of availing this facility may approach SEBI for necessary 
permission. Operational modalities regarding eligibility criteria, individual limits, identification 
of recognised stock exchanges, investible universe, monitoring of aggregate ceilings, etc., 
shall be as per the guidelines issued by SEBI. General permission is available to such 
investors for sale of securities so acquired.  
(3) An AD bank, including its overseas branch, may acquire or transfer foreign securities 
in terms of host c ountry regulations/laws, as applicable, in the normal course of its banking 
business. The provisions contained in OI Rules/Regulations shall not apply to such acquisition 
or transfer of foreign securities by an AD bank.   
(4) A bank in India, being licensed by  the Reserve Bank under the provisions of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, may acquire the shares of Society for Worldwide Interbank 
Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) as per the by -laws of SWIFT, provided the bank has 
been permitted by the Reserve Bank for admission to the ‘SWIFT User’s Group in India’ as a 
member.  
(5) Any overseas investment by the sole proprietorship or unregistered partnership firms 
may be made by the proprietor concerned or the individual partners concerned within their 
limit available under the LRS in accordance with schedule III of the OI Rules. If the proposed 
investment is in strategic sector, any application for making overseas investment in excess of 
the LRS limit may be made under the government approval route.   
(6) Overseas investment by registered trust/society may be made under the approval route 
in accordance with paragraph 1 of schedule IV of OI Rules.

[Page 21]
21 
 
24. Overseas investment in an IFSC in India by a person resident in India   
A person resident in India may make overseas investment in an IFSC in India in accordance 
with schedule V of OI Rules. The following is further provided:   
(1) 4A person resident in India, being an Indian entity or a resident individual, may make 
investment (including sponsor contribution) in units or any other instrument (by whatever name 
called) issued by an investment fund or vehicle set up in an IFSC, as OPI. Accordingly, in 
addition to listed Indian companies and resident individuals, unlisted Indian entities also may 
make such investment in IFSC. 
(2) The restriction of making ODI only in an operating foreign entity or not making ODI in 
a foreign entity engaged in financial services activity by resident individuals, shall not apply to 
an investment made in IFSC. Such investment, however, shall not be made in any foreign 
entity engaged in banking or insurance. Such foreign entity in IFSC may have subsidiary/SDS 
in IFSC. It may also have subsidiary/SDS outside IFSC where the resident individual does not 
have control in the foreign entity. Resident individual who has made ODI without control shall 
not acquire control in a foreign entity that subsequently acquires or sets -up a subsidiary/SDS 
outside India.  
 
25. Acquisition or Transfer of Immovable Property outside India   
Any acquisition or transfer of immovable property outside India shall be governed by the 
provisions contained in rule 21 of OI Rules. The following is further provided:  
(1)  An AD bank may allow an Indian entity having an overseas office to acquire immovable 
property outside India for the business and residential purposes of its staff, provided total 
remittances do not exceed the following limits as laid down for initial and recurring expenses, 
respectively:  
a) 15 per cent of the average annual sales/income or turnover of the Indian entity during the 
last two financial years or up to 25 per cent of the net worth, whichever is higher;  
b) 10 per cent of the average annual sales/income or turnover during the last two financial 
years.  
Part IV - Other Operational Instructions to AD banks  
26. Designated banks  
(1) An eligible person resident in India making ODI (or financial commitment) in a foreign 
entity is required to route all its transactions relating to such investment (or financial 
commitment) through the AD bank designated by it. In case a foreign entity is being set up by 
 
4 Para substituted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated June 7, 2024

[Page 22]
22 
 
two or more persons resident in India, then all such persons shall route all transactions in 
respect of that foreign entity only through one designated AD bank. However, different AD 
banks may be designated, if required, for different foreign entities.  
(2) In case such a person resident in India wants to switch over to another AD, it may 
approach the new AD after obtaining an NOC from the existing AD bank.   
(3) 5All communication from the person resident in India to the concerned Regional Office 
of the Reserve Bank should be routed through the nodal branch of the designated AD bank.  
Such communication shall be made by the AD bank through the relevant form available on the 
PRAVAAH portal (https://pravaah.rbi.org.in/pravaah ), in accordance with UIN mapping given 
in the table below. 
Sr. No UIN with prefix 
Regional Office of RBI to which the 
reference is to be sent to 
1.  AH RO Ahmedabad 
2.  BG RO Bengaluru 
3.  BL or BY or PJ RO Mumbai 
4.  BN or CA or GA or GH RO Kolkata 
5.  CG or JM or JR or KA or ND or PT or WR RO New Delhi 
6.  HY RO Hyderabad 
7.  KO or MA RO Chennai 
 
For proper follow up, the AD bank shall maintain person-wise record in respect of each foreign 
entity. 
 
27. Overseas investment under OI Rules/Regulations  
(1) AD banks may allow remittance towards overseas investment up to the permissible 
limits on receipt of application in Form FC together with form A-2, duly filled in, from the person 
making such investments subject to their complying with the conditions prescribed in the OI 
Rules/Regulations/Directions. AD banks shall render themselves liable for penal action under 
section 11 and 13 of FEMA, 1999, if they facilitate remittances towards financial commitment 
without obtaining the requisite duly completed Form FC.   
Explanation: AD banks may note that an additional timeline of 15 days is made 
available to them for reporting of investments/financial commitment by their constituents to 
RBI in the OID application (other than first remittance, which requires to be reported in OID 
 
5 Para amended vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 02 dated April 01, 2026

[Page 23]
23 
 
system before executing the transaction, to generate UIN) and is not to be availed by the Indian 
entities/resident individuals for submission of forms and documents to the AD bank.  
(2) AD banks should allow remittance towards loan to the foreign entity and/or issue bank 
guarantee to/on behalf of the foreign entity only after ensuring that the Indian entity has made 
ODI and has control in the foreign entity.   
(3) The Reserve Bank will not, generally, specify the documents which should be verified 
by the AD banks for ensuring the bona fides of the transactions. In this connection, attention 
of authorised persons is drawn to sub-section (5) of Section 10 of the FEMA, 1999 which 
provides that an authorised person shall require any person desiring to transact in foreign 
exchange to make such a declaration and to give such information as will reasonably satisfy 
him that the transaction will not involve and is not designed for the purpose of any 
contravention or evasion of the provisions of the FEMA, 1999 or any rule, regulation, 
notification, direction or order issued thereunder. AD banks shall put in place a standard policy 
laying down the requirements or documents or information to be obtained by their branches to 
ensure compliance with said provisions of FEMA.  
(4) AD banks shall ensure bona fides of the transaction, compliance with FEMA provisions, 
compliance with Know Your Customer (KYC) 6 Guidelines and compliance with anti -money 
laundering guidelines/laws. Any doubtful case/suspicious transaction shall be referred to 
Directorate of Enforcement (DoE) for further investigation and necessary action.  
(5) In case of ODI by way of capitalisation of export proceeds or other entitlements, Indian 
entity/resident individual shall make an application in Form FC to its designated AD bank. AD 
bank may ensure necessary reporting in Form FC, compliance with OI Rules/Regulations and 
necessary reporting in EDPMS, wherever applicable, for facilitating such transactions. In case 
where such proceeds are overdue beyond the period specified for realisation/repatriation, 
before permitting such capitalisation AD bank may grant necessary extension post proper due 
diligence.  
(6) Pre-incorporation expenses – AD bank may allow remittance towards pre-
incorporation expenses after satisfying itself of the reasonableness, up to a maximum of USD 
100,000 per foreign entity. Such remittances made by a resident individual shall be reckoned 
towards their LRS limit. A person resident in India may capitalise pre-incorporati on expenses 
(i.e., financial commitment by way of ODI) or recognise such expenses as receivables ( i.e., 
financial commitment by way of debt) or account them as expenses in their books. It is clarified 
 
6 Consequent to issuance of A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 16 dated November 28, 2025, reference to 
‘Master Direction – Know Your Customer (KYC) Direction, 2016’ removed.

[Page 24]
24 
 
that unless recognised as financial commitment such expenses shall not attract provisions of 
OI Rules/Regulations.   
 
28. General procedural instructions for online reporting  
(1) The existing application for online reporting of overseas investment related 
transactions by Authorised dealers (ADs) has provision for Maker, Checker and Authoriser. 
The AD Maker shall initiate the transaction and submit to the AD Checker for verification before 
submission to Reserve Bank. In case of delay in reporting for any reason the transaction shall 
be reported to RBI only after a middle management level officer designated as an authoriser 
ratifies it by recording the reasons for the same.   
(2) The AD Maker, AD Checker and AD Authoriser as above identified by the AD Bank 
may obtain a user -id, if not obtained already, for accessing the online OID application by 
submitting a request in the prescribed format as per appendix A.  
(3) The online reporting shall be made by the Centralised Unit/Nodal Office of AD banks. 
The overseas investment application is hosted on the Reserve Bank's Website at 
https://fed.rbi.org.in. AD banks shall be responsible for the validity of the information reported 
online.  
(4) Reserve Bank reserves the right to place the information received through the forms in 
the public domain.  
(5) AD banks should put in place proper processes and systems and issue necessary 
instructions to all the dealing officials at the bank/branch level to ensure compliance with these 
directions.

[Page 25]
25 
 
Appendix A  
 
Request Form for creation of user id in the OID Application  
  
Description of request   Tick  Kindly paste a 
recent passport 
size photograph 
of the applicant  
1) Addition of user id    
2) Modification of assigned role/ user type / 
details of the user id  
  
3) Deactivation of the user id    
  
Details of the User  
Name of the user    PF No. /  
Employee No.  
  
Name and address of the 
AD bank  
  
Name of the  
department/division/section  
  
Designation of the user    
User Type (tick)  AD  
Maker  
  AD  
Checker  
  AD  
Authoriser  
  
Corporate mail id    
Signature of the Applicant  
  
  
  
Signature / Approval of Head of Department  
  
Name    
Approved Roles    
Justification / Remarks    
Signature    
  
To be filled by the OID System Administrator  
  
Change request number    
User id creation date    
Role/s assigned    
Justification    
Name    
Signature

[Page 26]
26 
 
Annex I 
List of Circulars which have been consolidated in this Master Direction 
 
Sr. 
No. Circulars Date 
1 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 12 August 22, 2022 
2 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 June 07, 2024 
3 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.02 April 01, 2026
