[Page 1]
RBI/FED/2016-17/12 
FED Master Direction No. 17/2016-17  January 1, 2016 
(Updated as on January 12, 2026) 
(Updated as on October 01, 2025) 
(Updated as on June 13, 2025) 
(Updated as on August 29, 2024)  
(Updated as on March 01, 2024) 
(Updated as on November 21, 2022) 
                                                                                                    (Updated as on May 31, 2022) 
(Updated as on January 06, 2022) 
(Updated as on December 07, 2021) 
(Updated as on October 28, 2020) 
(Updated as on January 27, 2020) 
  (Updated as on April 01, 2019) 
(Updated as on February 02, 2018) 
(Updated as on January 12, 2017) 
(Updated as on October 20, 2016) 
(Updated as on March 31, 2016) 
(Updated as on February 04, 2016) 
To 
All Authorised Dealer Category – I banks  
Madam / Dear Sir, 
Master Direction – Import of Goods and Services 
 
Import of Goods and Services into India is being allowed in terms of Section 5 of the Foreign 
Exchange Management Act 1999 (42 of 1999), read with Noti fication No. G.S.R. 381(E) 
dated May 3, 2000 viz. Foreign Exchange Management (Current Account Transaction) 
Rules, 2000. These Regulations are amended from time to time to incorporate the changes 
in the regulatory framework and published through amendment notifications. 
2. Within the contours of the Regulations, Reserve Bank of India also issues directions to 
Authorised Persons under Section 10(4) and Section 11(1)  of the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act (FEMA), 1999. These directions lay down the modalities as  to how the 
foreign exchange business  has to be conducted by the Authorised Persons with their 
customers/constituents with a view to implementing the regulations framed. 
3. Instructions issued on import of goods and services into India have been compiled in this 
Master Direction. The list of underlying circulars/ notifications which form the basis of this 
Master Direction is furnished in the Appendix. Reporting instructions can be found in Master 
Direction on reporting (Master Direction No. 18 dated January 01, 2016).

[Page 2]
1  
4. It may be noted that, whenever necessary, Reserve Bank shall issue directions to 
Authorised Persons through A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars in regard to any change in the 
Regulations or the manner in which relative transactions are to be conducted by the 
Authorised Persons with their customers/ constituents. The Master Direction issued herewith 
shall be amended suitably simultaneously.  This Master Direction is issued under Sections 
10(4) and 11(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and  is without prejudice to 
permissions/ approvals, if any, required under any other law. 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
     (Dr. Aditya Gaiha) 
          Chief General Manager-in-Charge

[Page 3]
2  
 
INDEX 
Section I - Introduction 
Section II - General Guidelines for imports 
B.1. General Guidelines 
B.2. Remittances for Import Payments 
B.3. Import Licenses 
B.4. Obligation of Purchaser of Foreign Exchange 
B.5. Time Limit for Settlement of Import Payments 
B.6. Import of Foreign exchange / Indian Rupees 
B.7. Third Party Payment for Import Transactions 
B.8. Issue of Guarantees by an Authorised Dealer 
Section III - Operational Guidelines for Imports 
C.1. Advance Remittance 
C.2. Interest on Import Bills 
C.3. Remittances against Replacement Imports 
C.4. Guarantee for Replacement Import 
C.5. Import of Equipment by Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) 
Companies for their overseas sites 
C.6. Receipt of Import Bills/Documents by the Importer Directly 
from Overseas Suppliers 
C.7. Evidence of Import 
C.8. 
1
Import Data Processing and Monitoring System 
C.9. Verification and Preservation 
C.10. Follow up for Import Evidence 
C.11. Import of Gold 
C.12. Import of Other Precious Metals 
C.13. Import Factoring 
C.14. Merchanting Trade 
C.15. Import Payments through Online Payment Gateway Service 
Providers 
C.16. 
2
Settlement of Import transactions in currencies not having a 
direct exchange rate 
C.17 Import Data Processing and Monitoring System (IDPMS) – 
reconciliation of import entries – Special Procedure 
 Consolidated List of Circulars in the Master Direction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Modified vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.65 dated April 28, 2016 and AP (DIR Series) Circular No.5 dated October 06, 
2016 prior to modification it read as ‘’Issue of acknowledgement” 
2 Inserted vide AP (DIR) Series Circular 42 dated February 4, 2016

[Page 4]
3  
Master Direction 17 – Import of Goods and Services 
Section I - Introduction 
(i) Import trade is regulated by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) 
under the Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Department of Commerce, Government 
of India. Authorised Dealer Category – I (AD Category – I) banks should ensure that 
the imports into India are in conformity with the Foreign Trade Policy in force and 
Foreign Exchange Management (Current Account Transactions) Rules, 2000  
framed by the Government of India vide Notification No. G.S.R.381 (E) dated May  
3, 2000 and the Directions issued by Reserve Bank under Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 from time to time. 
(ii) AD Category –  I banks should follow normal banking procedures and adhere to 
the provisions of Uniform Customs and Practices for Documentary Credits 
(UCPDC), etc. while opening letters of credit for import into India on behalf of their 
constituents. 
(iii) Compliance with the provisions of Research & Development Cess Act, 1986 
may be ensured for import of drawings and designs. 
(iv) AD Category – I banks may also advise importers to ensure compliance with the 
provisions of Income Tax Act, wherever applicable. 
(v) Any reference to the Reserve Bank should first be made to the Regional Office  
of the Foreign Exchange Department situated in the jurisdiction where the applicant  
person resides, or the firm / company functions, unless otherwise indicated. If, for 
any parti cular reason, they desire to deal with a different office of the Foreign 
Exchange Department, they may approach the Regional Office of its jurisdiction for 
necessary approval.  Such references should be routed through the Compliance 
Head of the AD bank. 
Section II - General Guidelines for Imports 
B.1. General Guidelines 
Rules and regulations to be followed by the AD Category –  I banks from the foreign 
exchange angle while undertaking import payment transactions on behalf of their 
clients are set out in the following paragraphs. Where specific regulations do not

[Page 5]
4  
exist, AD Category –  I banks may be governed by normal trade practices. AD 
Category – I banks may particularly note to adhere to "Know Your Customer" (KYC) 
guidelines issued by Reserve Bank (Department of Banking Regulation) in all their 
dealings. 
B.2. Remittances for Import Payments 
AD Category I Banks may allow remittance for making payments for imports into 
India, after ensuring that all the requisite details are made available by the importer 
and the remittance is for bona fide trade transactions as per applicable laws in  
force. 
B.3. Import Licences 
Except for goods included in the negative list which require licence under the 
Foreign Trade Policy in force, AD Category -  I banks may freely open letters of  
credit and allow remittances for import. While opening letters of credit, the ‘For 
Exchange Control purposes’ copy of the licence should be called for and adherence 
to special conditions, if any, attached to such licences should be ensured. After 
effecting remittances under the licence, AD Category -  I banks may preserve the 
copies of utilised licence /s till they are verified by the internal auditors or inspectors. 
B.4. Obligation of Purchaser of Foreign Exchange 
(i) In terms of Section 10(6) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 
(FEMA), any person acquiring foreign exchange is permitted to use it either for the 
purpose mentioned in the declaration made by him to an Authorised Dealer 
Category – I bank under Section 10(5) of the Act or for any other purpose for which 
acquisition of foreign exchange is permissible under the said Act or Rules or 
Regulations framed there under. 
(ii) Where foreign exchange acquired has been utilised for import of goods into 
India, the AD Category –  I bank should ensure that the importer furnishes evidence 
of import viz., 3as in IDPMS as explained in para C.7, Postal Appraisal Form or 
Customs Assessment Certificate, etc., and satisfy himself that goods equivalent to 
 
3 Modified vide AP DIR Series Circular No. 27 dated January 12, 2017 prior to modification it read as “Exchange Control 
Copy of the Bill of Entry”

[Page 6]
5  
the value of remittance have been imported. 4AD bank should ensure that all import 
remittances outstanding on the notified date of IDPMS are uploaded in IDPMS. 
5
ommitted 
B.5. Time Limit for Settlement of Import Payments 
B.5.1. Time limit for Normal Imports 
(i) In terms of the extant regulations, remittances against imports should be 
completed not later than six months from the date of shipment, except in cases 
where amounts are withheld towards guarantee of performance, et c. 6Further, for 
the disruptions due to outbreak of COVID -19 pandemic, with effect from May 22, 
2020, the time period for completion of remittances against normal imports (except 
in cases where amounts are withheld towards guarantee of performance etc.) was 
extended from s ix months to twelve months from the date of shipment for such 
imports made on or before July 31, 2020. 
(ii) AD Category –  I banks may permit settlement of import dues delayed due to 
disputes, financial difficulties, etc. However, interest if any, on such delayed 
payments, usance bills or overdue interest  is payable only for a period of up to  
three years from the date of shipment and may be permitted in terms of the 
directions in para C.2 of Section III below. 
B.5.2. Time Limit for Deferred Payment Arrangements 
 
Any deferred payment arrangements (including suppliers’ and buyers’ credit) entered 
into, for up to three years in case of import of capital goods and up to one year or the 
operating cycle whichever is less, in case of import of non- capital goods, shall be 
treated as trade credits for which the procedural guidelines as laid down in the Master 
Direction on External Commercial Borrowings, Trade Credits and Structured 
Obligations may be followed.7 
 
 
4 Inserted vide AP DIR Series circular No.5 dated October 06, 2016 
5 omitted 
6 Inserted vide AP DIR Series Circular No.33 dated May 22, 2020 
7 Modified. Prior to modification it read as “Deferred payment arrangements (including suppliers’ and buyers’ credit) upto 
five years, are treated as trade credits for which the procedural guidelines as laid down in the Master Circular for External 
Commercial Borrowings and Trade Credits may be followed.”

[Page 7]
6  
B.5.3. Time Limit for Import of Books 
Remittances against import of books may be allowed without restriction as to the 
time limit, provided, interest payment, if any, is as per the instructions in para C.2 of 
Section III of this Circular. 
8
B.5.4 Extension of Time 
(i) AD Category –  I banks can consider granting extension of time for settlement of 
import dues up to a period of six months at a time (maximum up to the period of 
three years) irrespective of the invoice value for delays on account of disputes  
about quantity or quality or non- fulfilment of terms of contract; financial difficulties 
and cases where importer has filed suit against the seller. In cases where sector 
specific guidelines have been issued by Reserve Bank of India for extension of time 
(i.e. rough, cut and polished diamonds), the same will be applicable. 
(ii) While granting extension of time, AD Category –I banks must ensure that: 
a. The import transactions covered by the invoices are not under investigation 
by Directorate of Enforcement / Central Bureau of Investigation or other 
investigating agencies; 
b. While considering extension beyond one year from the date of remittance 9, 
the total outstanding of the importer does not exceed USD one million or 10 
per cent of the average import remittances during the preceding two financial 
years, whichever is lower; and 
c. Where extension of time has been granted by the AD Category – I banks, the 
date up to which extension has been granted may be indicated in the 
‘Remarks’ column. 
(iii) Cases not covered by the above instructions / beyond the above limi ts, may be 
referred to the concerned Regional Office of Reserve Bank of India. 
10(iv) The above shall be reported in IDPMS as per  message “Bill of  Entry 
Extension” and the date up to which extension is granted will be indicated in 
“Extension Date” column. 
 
 
8 Inserted vide AP DIR Series circular No.65 dated April 28, 2016 
9 Clarification: may be considered as date of shipment 
10 Inserted vide AP DIR Series circular No.05 dated October 06, 2016

[Page 8]
7  
B.6. Import of Foreign Exchange / Indian Rupees 
(i) Except as otherwise provided in the Regulations, no person shall, without the 
general or special permission of the Reserve Bank, import or bring into India, any 
foreign currency. Import of foreign currency, including cheques, is governed by 
Foreign Exchange Management (Export and Import of Currency) Regulations 2000, 
issued by Reserve Bank vide 11Notification No. FEMA 6(R)/2015- RB dated 
December 29, 2015. 
(ii) Reserve Bank may allow a person to bring into India currency notes of 
Government of India and / or of Reserve Bank subject to such terms and conditions 
as the Reserve Bank may stipulate. 
B.6.1. Import of Foreign Exchange into India 
A person may– 
(i) Send into India, without limit, foreign exchange in any form other than currency 
notes, bank notes and travellers cheques; 
(ii) Bring into India from any place outside India, without limit, foreign exchange (other than 
unissued notes), subject to the condition that such person makes, on arrival in India, a 
declaration to the Custom Authorities at the Airport in the Currency Declaration Form (CDF) 
annexed to these Regulations; provided further that it shall not be necessary to make such 
declaration where the aggregate value of the foreign exchange in the form of currency 
notes, bank notes or travellers cheques brought in by such person at any one time does not 
exceed USD 10,000 (US Dollars ten thousand) or its equivalent and/or the aggregate value 
of foreign currency notes (cash portion) alone brought in by such person at any one time 
does not exceed USD 5,000 (US Dollars five thousand) or its equivalent. 
B.6.2. Import of Indian Currency and Currency Notes 
(i) Any person resident in India who had gone out of India on a temporary visit, may bring 
into India at the time of his return from any place outside India (other than from Nepal and 
Bhutan), currency notes of Government of India and Reserve Bank 
of India notes up to an amount not exceeding Rs.25,000 (Rupees twenty five thousand 
only). 
 
11 Modified vide Notification No.6(R)/2015-RB prior to modification it read as “Notification No. FEMA 6/2000-RB dated 
May 3, 2000”

[Page 9]
8  
(ii) A person may bring into India from Nepal or Bhutan, currency notes of Government of 
India and Reserve Bank of India for any amount in denominations up to Rs.100/-. 
B.7. Third Party Payment for Import Transactions 
AD category I banks are allowed to make payments to a third party for import of goods, 
subject to conditions as under: 
a. Firm irrevocable purchase order / tripartite agreement should be in place. However 
this requirement may not be insisted upon in case where documentary evidence for 
circumstances leading to third party payments / name of the third party being 
mentioned in the irrevocable order / invoice has been produced. 
b. AD bank should be satisfied with the bonafides of the t ransactions and should 
consider the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Statement before handling the 
transactions; 
c. The Invoice should contain a narration that the related payment has to be made to 
the (named) third party; 
d. Bill of Entry should mention the name of the shipper as also the narration that the 
related payment has to be made to the (named) third party; 
e. Importer should comply with the related extant instructions relating to imports 
including those on advance payment being made for import of goods. 
B.8. Issue of Guarantees by an Authorised Dealer 
 
For issuance of guarantees, AD Banks may be guided by Foreign Exchange Management 
(Guarantees) Regulations, 2026.12    
 
12 Modified vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated January 12, 2026.  Prior to modification it read as “B.8.1 An authorised 
dealer may give a guarantee in respect of any debt, obligation or other liability incurred by a person resident in India and owned 
to a person resident outside India, as an importer, in respect of import on deferred payment terms in accordance with the 
approval by the Reserve Bank of India for import on such terms. 
B.8.2 An authorised dealer may give guarantee, Letter of Undertaking of Letter of Comfort in respect of any debt, obligation or 
other liability incurred by a person resident in India and owned to a person resident outside India (being an overseas suppli er of 
goods, bank or a financial institution), for import of goods, as permitted under the Foreign Trade Policy announced by 
Government of India from time to time and subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified by Reserve Bank of India 
from time to time. 
B.8.3 An authorised dealer may, in the ordinary course of his business, give a guarantee in favour of a non- resident service 
provider, on behalf of a resident customer who is a service importer, subject to such terms and conditions as stipulated by 
Reserve Bank of India from time to time: 
Provided that no guarantee for an amount exceeding USD 500,000 or its equivalent shall be issued on behalf of a service 
importer other than a Public Sector Company or a Department / Undertaking of the Government of India / State Government: 
Provided further that where the service importer is a Public Sector Company or a Department / Undertaking of the Government 
of India / State Government, no guarantee for an amount exceeding USD 100,000 or its equivalent shall be issued wi thout the 
prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, Government of India. 
B.8.4 An authorised dealer may, subject to the directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India in this behalf, permit a person  
resident in India to issue corporate guarantee in favour  of an overseas lessor for financing import through operating lease 
effected in conformity with the Foreign Trade Policy in force and under the provisions of the Foreign exchange Management 
(Current Account Transactions) Rules, 2000 framed by the Government of India vide Notification No. G. S. R. 381 (E) dated May 
3, 2000 and the Directions issued by Reserve Bank of India under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 from time to time.”

[Page 10]
9  
Section III - Operational Guidelines for Imports 
C.1. Advance Remittance 
C.1.1. Advance Remittance for Import of Goods 
(i) AD Category – I bank may allow advance remittance for import of goods without 
any ceiling subject to the following conditions: 
(a) If the amount of advance remittance exceeds USD 200,000 or its equivalent, an 
unconditional, irrevocable standby Letter of Credit or a guarantee from an 
international bank of repute situated outside India or a guarantee of an AD Category 
– I bank in India, if such a guarantee is issued against the counter -guarantee of an 
international bank of repute situated outside India, is obtained. 
(b) In cases where the importer (other than a Public Sector Company or a 
Department/Undertaking of the Government of India/State Government/s) is unable 
to obtain bank guarantee from overseas suppliers and the AD Category –  I bank is 
satisfied about the track record and bonafides of the importer, the requirement of  
the bank guarantee / standby Letter of Credit may not be insisted upon for advance 
remittances up to USD 5,000,000 (US Dollar fiv e million). AD Category – I banks 
may frame their own internal guidelines to deal with such cases as per a suitable 
policy framed by the bank's Board of Directors. 
(c) A Public Sector Company or a Department/Undertaking of the Government of 
India / State Government/s which is not in a position to obtain a guarantee from an 
international bank of repute against an advance payment, is required to obtain a 
specific waiver for the bank guarantee from the Ministry of Finance, Government of 
India before making advance remittance exceeding USD 100,000. 
(ii) All payments towards advance remittance for imports shall be subject to the 
specified conditions 13and AD banks are required to create Outward Remittance 
Message (ORM) for all such outward remittances in IDPMS & foll ow other extant 
IDPMS guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
13 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular dated No.5 dated October 06, 2016

[Page 11]
10  
C.1.2. Advance Remittance for Import of Rough Diamonds 
a) AD category –  I banks are permitted to take decision on overseas mining 
companies to whom an importer (other than Public Sector Company or Department 
/ Undertaking of Government of India / State Government) can make advance 
payments, without any limit / bank guarantee/ stand- by letter of Credit. Banks must 
ensure the following: 
i. The overseas mining company should have the recommendation of GJEPC. 
ii. The impor ter should be a recognised processor of rough diamonds and should 
have a good track record. 
iii. AD Category -  I banks should, undertake the transaction based on their 
commercial judgment and after being satisfied about the bonafides of the 
transaction. 
iv. Advance payments should be made strictly as per the terms of the sale contract 
and should be made directly to the account of the company concerned, that is, to  
the ultimate beneficiary and not through numbered accounts or otherwise and AD 
banks should ensure that they have created the Outward Remittance Message 
(ORM) for all such outward remittances in IDPMS. 
v. Further, due caution may be exercised to ensure that remittance is not permitted 
for import of conflict diamonds (Kimberly Certification). 
vi. KYC and due diligence exercise should be done by the  AD Category - I banks as 
per the existing guidelines. 
vii. AD Category -  I banks should follow -up submission of the Bill of Entry / 
documents evidencing import of rough diamonds into the country by the importer, in 
terms of the Act / Rules / Regulations / Directions issued in this regard. 
b) In case of an  importer entity in the Public Sector or a Department / Undertaking  
of the Government of India / State Government/s, AD Category - I banks may permit 
the advance remittance subject to the above conditions and a specific waiver of 
bank guarantee from the Mi nistry of Finance, Government of India, where the 
advance payments is equivalent to or exceeds USD 100,000/ - (USD one hundred 
thousand only).

[Page 12]
11  
14viii. Based on the AD code declared by the importer, the banks shall download the 
Bill of Entr y (BOE) issued by EDI ports from “BOE Master” in IDPMS. For non- EDI 
ports, AD banks of the importer shall upload the BoE data in IDPMS as per  
message format “Manual BoE reporting” on daily basis on receipt of BoE from the 
customer/Customs Office. 
ix. AD banks will enter BOE details and mark off ORMs as per the message format 
“BOE Settlement” 
x. In case of payment after receipt of BoE, the AD bank shall generate ORM for 
import payments made by the importer customer as per the message format “BOE 
Settlement” 
xi. Multiple ORMs can be settled against single BoE and also multiple BoEs can be 
settled against one ORM. 
C.1.3. Advance Remittance for Import of Aircrafts/Helicopters , other Aviation 
Related Purchases and Shipping Vessels 
1. As a sector specific measure, entities which have been permitted under the 
extant Foreign Trade Policy to import aircrafts and helicopters (including used / 
second hand aircraft and helicopters) or any other person who has been granted 
permission by the Directorate General of Civil Avi ation (DGCA) to operate 
Scheduled or Non- Scheduled Air Transport Service (including Air Taxi Services), 
can make advance remittance without bank guarantee or an unconditional, 
irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit, up to USD 50 million. Accordingly, AD  
Category – I banks may allow advance remittance, without obtaining a bank 
guarantee or an unconditional, irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit, up to USD 50 
million, for direct import of each aircraft, helicopter and other aviation related 
purchases. 
2. Importers of Aircrafts/ Helicopters and other Aviation related Purchases, not 
eligible under clause (1) above can make advance remittance without bank 
guarantee, in terms of Para C.1.1 above. 
 
 
14 Point viii to xi. Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.5 dated October 06, 2016

[Page 13]
12  
3. The remittances for the transactions at 1 and 2 above shall be subject to the 
following conditions: 
i. The AD Category -  I banks should undertake the transactions based on their 
commercial judgment and after being satisfied about the bonafide of the 
transactions. KYC and due diligence exercise should be done by the AD Category -I 
banks for the Indian importer entity and the overseas manufacturer company as  
well. 
ii. Advance payments should be made strictly as per the terms of the sale contract 
and directly to the account of the manufacturer (supplier) concerned. 
iii. AD Category - I banks may frame their own internal guidelines to deal with such 
cases, with the approval of their Board of Directors. 
iv. In the case of a Public Sector Company or a Department / Undertaking of Central 
/State Governments, the AD Category -  I bank shall ensure that the requirement of 
bank guarantee has been specifically waived by the Ministry of Finance, 
Government of India for advance remittances exceeding USD 100,000. 
v. Physical import of goods into India is made within six months (three years in case 
of capital goods) from the date of remittance and the importer gives an undertaking 
to furnish documentary evidence of import within fifteen days from the close of the 
relevant period. It is clarified that where advance is paid as milestone payments, the 
date of last remittance made in term s of the contract will be reckoned for the 
purpose of submission of documentary evidence of import. 
vi. Prior to making the remittance, the AD Category –  I bank may ensure that the 
requisite in principle approval of the Ministry of Civil Aviation in case of Sc heduled 
Air Service Operators and in other cases approval of the Director General of Civil 
Aviation / other agencies in terms of the extant Foreign Trade Policy has been 
obtained by the company, for import. 
vii. In the event of non- import of aircraft and aviati on sector related products, AD 
Category - I bank should ensure that the amount of advance remittance is 
immediately repatriated to India.

[Page 14]
13  
Prior approval of the concerned Regional Office of the Reserve Bank will be 
required in case of any deviation from the above stipulations. 
15viii. Concerned AD Category I banks to ensure generation of ORMs, BoE entries 
and BoE settlement with the respective ORMs etc. as per extant IDPMS guidelines. 
164. Importers are allowed to make advance remittance for import of shipping 
vessel, without bank guarantee, or an unconditional, irrevocable standby Letter of 
Credit, up to USD 50 million, subject to the conditions mentioned in para C.1.3.3 
above, as applicable. 
C.1.4. Advance Remittance for the Import of Services 
AD Category –  I bank may allow advance remittance for import of services without 
any ceiling subject to the following conditions: 
(a) Where the amount of advance exceeds USD 500,000 or its equivalent, a 
guarantee from a bank of international repute situated outside India, or a guarantee 
from an AD Category – I bank in India, if such a guarantee is issued against the 
counter-guarantee of a bank of international repute situated outside India, should be 
obtained from the overseas beneficiary. 
(b) In the cas e of a Public Sector Company or a Department/ Undertaking of the 
Government of India/ State Governments, approval from the Ministry of Finance, 
Government of India for advance remittance for import of services without bank 
guarantee for an amount exceeding USD 100,000 (USD One hundred thousand) or 
its equivalent would be required. 
(c) AD Category – I banks should also follow-up to ensure that the beneficiary of the 
advance remittance fulfils his obligation under the contract or agreement with the 
remitter in India, failing which, the amount should be repatriated to India. 
17
(d) AD Category –  I banks should ensure generation of ORMs and marking off in 
the IDPMS etc., as per extant IDPMS guidelines. 
 
15 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.65 dated April 28, 2016 and AP (DIR Series) Circular No.5 dated October 06, 
2016 
16 Inserted vide AP(DIR Series) Circular No 07 dated June 13, 2025 
17 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.65 dated April 28, 2016 and AP (DIR Series) Circular No.5 dated October 06, 
2016

[Page 15]
14  
C.2. Interest on Import Bills 
 
(i) AD Category –  I bank may allow payment of interest on usance bills or overdue 
interest on delayed payments for a period of less than three years from the date of 
shipment at the rate prescribed for trade credit from time to time. 
 
(ii) In case of pre- payment of usance import bills, remi ttances may be made only 
after reducing the proportionate interest for the unexpired portion of usance at the 
rate at which interest has been claimed or LIBOR/any other widely 
accepted/Alternative reference rate of the currency in which the goods have been  
invoiced, whichever is applicable. Where interest is not separately claimed or 
expressly indicated, remittances may be allowed after deducting the proportionate 
interest for the unexpired portion of usance at LIBOR/any other widely 
accepted/Alternative reference rate18 of the currency of invoice. 
19(iii) In case of change in value due to (i) or (ii) above, the respective AD bank 
should ensure proper remark/indicator is entered for ORM mark off in IDPMS etc. as 
per extant IDPMS guidelines. 
C.3. Remittances against Replacement Imports 
Where goods are short -supplied, damaged, short -landed or lost in transit and the 
Exchange Control Copy of the import licence has already been utilised to cover the 
opening of a letter of credit against the original goods which have b een lost, the 
original endorsement to the extent of the value of the lost goods may be cancelled 
by the AD Category –  I bank and fresh remittance for replacement imports may be 
permitted without reference to Reserve Bank, provided, the insurance claim relating 
to the lost goods has been settled in favour of the importer. It may be ensured that 
the consignment being replaced is shipped within the validity period of the license. 
20AD bank should ensure that proper remark/indicator is entered for ORM mark 
off/closure of Bills in IDPMS etc. as per extant IDPMS guidelines. 
 
18 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 13 dated September 28, 2021 
19 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.65 dated April 28, 2016 and AP (DIR Series) Circular No.5 dated October 06, 
2016 
20 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.65 dated April 28, 2016 and AP (DIR Series) Circular No.5 dated October 06, 
2016

[Page 16]
15  
C.4. Guarantee for Replacement Import 
In case replacement goods for defective import are being sent by the overseas 
supplier before the defective goods imported earlier are reshipped out of India, A D 
Category-I banks may issue guarantees at the request of importer client for 
dispatch/return of the defective goods, according to their commercial judgment. 
C.5. Import of Equipment by Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) Companies for  
their Overseas Sites 
AD Category – I bank may allow BPO companies in India to make remittances 
towards the cost of equipment to be imported and installed at their overseas sites in 
connection with the setting up of their International Call Centres (ICCs) subject to 
the following conditions: 
(i) The BPO company should have obtained necessary approval from the Ministry of 
Communications and Information Technology, Government of India and other 
authorities concerned for setting up of the ICC. 
(ii) The remittance should be allowed based on the AD Category -  I banks’ 
commercial judgment, the bonafides of the transactions and strictly in terms of the 
contract. 
(iii) The remittance is made directly to the account of the overseas supplier. 
(iv) The AD Category –  I banks should also obtain a certificate as evidence of 
import from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or auditor of the importer company 
that the goods for which remittance was made have actually been imported and 
installed at overseas sites. 
21(v) The AD Category I bank should ensure compliance wit h IDPMS guidelines as 
applicable. 
C.6. Receipt of Import Bills/Documents 
22Concerned AD Category banks to ensure generation of ORMs, BoE entries and 
BoE settlement with the respective ORMs in compliance with IDPMS guidelines as 
 
21 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.65 dated April 28, 2016 and AP (DIR Series) Circular No.5 dated October 06, 
2016 
22 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.65 dated April 28, 2016 and AP (DIR Series) Circular No.5 dated October 06, 
2016

[Page 17]
16  
applicable. 
C.6.1 Receipt of import documents by the importer directly from overseas suppliers 
Import bills and documents should be received from the banker of the supplier by 
the banker of the importer in India. AD Category – I bank should not, therefore, 
make remittances where import bills have been received directly by the importers 
from the overseas supplier, except in the following cases: 
(i) Where the value of import bill does not exceed USD 300,000. 
(ii) Import bills received by wholly -owned Indian subsidiaries of foreign companies 
from their principals. 
(iii) Import bills received by Status Holder Expor ters as defined in the Foreign Trade 
Policy, 100% Export Oriented Units / Units in Special Economic Zones, Public 
Sector Undertakings and Limited Companies. 
(iv) Import bills received by all limited companies viz. public limited, deemed public 
limited and private limited companies. 
C.6.2. Receipt of import documents by the importer directly from overseas suppliers 
in case of specified sectors 
As a sector specific measure, AD Category -  I banks are permitted to allow 
remittance for imports by non-status holder importers up to USD 300,000 where the 
importer of rough diamonds, rough precious and semi -precious stones has received 
the import bills / documents directly from the overseas supplier and the 
documentary evidence for import is submitted by the importer at th e time of 
remittance. Status holder importers as defined in the Foreign Trade Policy dealing 
in the import of rough diamonds, rough precious and semi - precious stones can 
receive import bills directly from the suppliers without any ceiling. AD Category -  I 
banks may undertake such transactions subject to the following conditions: 
(i) The import would be subject to the prevailing Foreign Trade Policy. 
(ii) The transactions are based on their commercial judgment and they are satisfied 
about the bonafides of the transactions. 
(iii) AD Category -  I banks should do the KYC and due diligence exercise and 
should be fully satisfied about the financial standing / status a nd track record of the

[Page 18]
17  
importer customer. Before extending the facility, they should also obtain a report on 
each individual overseas supplier from the overseas banker or reputed overseas 
credit rating agency. 
C.6.3. Receipt of import documents by the AD C ategory – I bank directly from overseas 
suppliers 
(i) At the request of importer clients, AD Category –  I bank may receive bills directly 
from the overseas supplier as above, provided the AD Category –  I bank is fully 
satisfied about the financial standing/sta tus and track record of the importer 
customer. 
(ii) Before extending the facility, the AD Category –  I bank should obtain a report on 
each individual overseas supplier from the overseas banker or a reputed overseas 
credit agency. However, such credit report on the overseas supplier need not be 
obtained in cases where the invoice value does not exceed USD 300,000 provided 
the AD Category –  I bank is satisfied about the bonafides of the transaction and 
track record of the importer constituent. 
C.7. Evidence of Import 
C.7.1. Physical Imports 
23(i) In case of all imports, irrespective of the value of foreign exchange remitted / 
paid for import into India, it is obligatory on the part of the AD Category – I bank 
through which the relative remittance was made, to ensure that the importer 
submits:- 
24(a) The importer shall submit BoE number, port code and date for marking evidence 
 
23 Modified vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.65 dated April 28, 2016 prior to modification it read as “In case of all imports, 
where value of foreign exchange remitted / paid for import into India exceeds USD 100,000 or its equivalent, it is obligatory on 
the part of the AD Category– I bank through which the relative remittance was made, to ensure that the importer submits” 
24 Sub points of point no. (i) and point no.(ii) modified vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 27 dated January 12, 2017 prior to 
modification they read as “(a) The Exchange Control Copy of the Bill of Entry for Home Consumption, or 
(b) The Exchange Control Copy of the Bill of Entry for warehousing, in case of 100% Export Oriented Units, or 
(c) Customs Assessment Certificate or Postal Appraisal Form, as declared by the importer to the Customs Authorities, where 
import has been made by post, or Courier Bill of Entry as declared by the courier companies to the Customs Authorities in 
cases where goods have been imported through couriers, as evidence that the goods for which the payment was made have 
actually been imported into India, or 
(d) The Exchange Control Copy of the Ex-Bond Bill of Entry or Bill of Entry issued by Customs Authorities by any other 
similar nomenclature for goods imported and stored in Free Trade Warehousing Zone (FTWZ) or SEZ Unit warehouses or 
Customs bonded warehouses, etc. 
(ii) In respect of imports on Delivery against acceptance basis, AD Category – I bank should insist on production of evidence 
of import at the time of effecting remittance of import bill. However, if importers fail to produce documentary evidence due 
to genuine reasons such as non- arrival of consignment, delay in delivery/ customs clearance of consignment, etc., AD bank 
may, if satisfied with the genuineness of request, allow reasonable time, not exceeding three months from the date of 
remittance, to the importer to submit the evidence of import.

[Page 19]
18  
of import under IDPMS as detailed in para C.8. 
(a) Customs Assessment Certificate or Postal Appraisal Form, as declared by the 
importer to the Customs Authorities, where import has been made by post, or 
Courier Bill of Entry as declared by the courier companies to the Customs 
Authorities in cases where goods have been imported through couriers, as evidence 
that the goods for which the payment was made have actually been imported i nto 
India, or 
(b) For goods imported and stored in Free Trade Warehousing Zone (FTWZ) or  
SEZ Unit warehouses or Customs bonded warehouses, etc.,  the Exchange Control 
Copy of the Ex -Bond Bill of Entry or Bill of Entry issued by Customs Authorities by 
any other similar nomenclature the importer shall submit applicable BoE number, 
port code and date for marking evidence of import under IDPMS as detailed in para 
C.8. 
(ii) In respect of imports on Delivery against acceptance basis, AD Category –  I 
bank shall verify the evidence of import from IDPMS at the time of effecting 
remittance of import bill. However, if importers fail to produce documentary  
evidence due to genuine reasons such as non-  arrival of consignment, delay in 
delivery/ customs clearance of consignment , etc., AD bank may, if satisfied with the 
genuineness of request, allow reasonable time, not exceeding three months from 
the date of remittance, to the importer to submit the evidence of import. 
25(iii) AD banks are required to create Outward Remittance Message (ORM) for all 
such outward remittances irrespective of value and shall perform the subsequent 
activity viz document submission, outward remittance data, matching with ORM, 
closing of transactions etc. as per IDPMS guidelines. 
C.7.2. Evidence of Import in Lieu of Bill of Entry 
(i) AD Category – I bank may accept, in lieu of Exchange Control Copy of Bill of 
Entry for home consumption, a certificate from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or 
 
 
 
25 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.65 dated April 28, 2016 and AP (DIR Series) Circular No.5 dated October 06, 
2016

[Page 20]
19  
auditor of the company that the goods for which remittance was made have actually 
been imported into India provided:- 
(a) The amount of foreign exchange remitted is less than USD 1,000,000 or its 
equivalent and 
(b) The importer is a company listed on a stock exchange in India and whose net 
worth is not less than Rs.100 crore as on the date of its last audited balance sheet, 
or, the importer is a public sector company or an undertaking of the Government of 
India or its departments. 
(ii) The above facility may also be extended to autonomous bodies, including 
scientific bodies/academic institutions, such as Indian Institute of Science / Indian 
Institute of Technology, etc. whose accounts are audited by the Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India (CAG). AD Category –  I bank may insist on a declaration 
from the auditor/CEO of such institutions that their accounts are audited by CAG. 
26(iii) Outward Remittance Message has to be created & BoE has to be downloaded 
from “BoE Master “in IDPMS (in case of EDI ports).  In case of Non- EDI ports 
duplicate copy/customs certified c opy have to be submitted or BoE waiver obtained 
from RBI. 
C.7.3. Non-physical Imports 
(i) Where imports are made in non- physical form, i.e., software or data through 
internet / datacom channels and drawings and designs through e- mail / fax, a 
certificate from a Chart ered Accountant that the software / data / drawing/ design 
has been received by the importer, may be obtained. 
(ii) AD Category –  I bank should advise importers to keep Customs Authorities 
informed of the imports made by them under this clause.27 
28C.8. Detailed Operational Procedures for IDPMS 
The operational guidelines are summarised as below: 
 
26 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.65 dated April 28, 2016 and AP (DIR Series) Circular No.5 dated October 06, 
2016 
27 Clarification: ORM not applicable for non physical imports 
28 Modified vide AP (DIR series circular) No.5 dated October 05, 2016  prior to modification it read as “Issue of 
Acknowledgement : AD Category – I bank should acknowledge receipt of evidence of import e.g. Exchange Control Copy  of 
the Bill of Entry, Postal Appraisal Form, or Customs Assessment Certificate, etc., from importers by issuing acknowledgement 
slips containing all relevant particulars relating to the import transactions.”

[Page 21]
20  
(i) AD banks are required to create Outward Remittance Message (ORM) for all 
outward remittance/s for import payments on behalf of their importer customer for 
which the prescribed documents for evidence of import have not been submitted. 
(ii) Creation of ORM for all outstanding outward remittance/s for import payments 
need to be completed on or before October 31, 2016 
Settlement of ORM with BoE 
(iii) Based on the AD code declared by the importer, the banks shall download 
the Bill of Entry (BoE) issued by EDI ports from “BOE Master” in IDPMS. For non-  
EDI ports, AD bank of the importer shall upload the BoE data in IDPMS as per 
message format “Manual BOE  reporting” on daily basis on receipt of BoE from the 
customer/Customs office. 29In order to enhance the ease of doing business and 
reduce transaction costs, submission of hardcopy of evidence of import documents 
i.e., BoE Exchange Control copy has been di scontinued with effect from December 
1, 2016 as the same is available in IDPMS. The revised procedure is as under: 
(iv) AD banks shall enter BoE details (BoE number, port code and date) for ORM 
associated with the advance payments for import transactions as per  the message 
format “BOE settlement”. 
(v) In case of payment after receipt of BoE, the AD bank shall generate ORM for 
import payments made by its importer customer as per the message format “BOE 
settlement”. 
(vi) Multiple ORMs can be settled against single BoE and also multiple BoE can 
be settled against one ORM. 
 
 
 
 
 
29 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.27 dated January 12, 2017

[Page 22]
21  
30(vii) On settlement of ORM with evidence of import AD Category – I bank shall in 
all cases issue an acknowledgement slip to the importer containing the following 
particulars: 
a. importer's full name and address with code number; 
b. number and date of BoE and the amount of import; and 
c. a recap advice on number and amount of BoE and ORM not settled for  
the importer. 
31(viii) The importer needs to preserve the printed ‘Importer copy’ of BoE as 
evidence of import and acknowledgement slip for future use. 
Extension and Write Off 
(ix) AD Category I banks shall give extension for submission of BoE beyond the 
prescribed period in terms of the extant guidelines on the matter, and the same will 
be reported in IDPMS as per the message “Bill of Entry Extension” and the  date up 
to which extension is granted will be indicated in “Extension Date” column. 
(x) AD Category I banks can consider closure of BoE/ORM in IDPMS that 
involves write off to the extent of 5% of invoice value in cases where the amount 
declared in BoE varies from the actual remittance due to operational reasons and 
AD bank is satisfied with the reason/s submitted by the importer. 
(xi) AD Category I banks may close the BoE for such import transactions where 
write off is on account of quality issues; short shipment or destruction of goods by 
the port / Customs / health authorities in terms of extant guidelines on the matter 
subject to submission of satisfactory documentation by the importer irrespective of 
the amount involved. AD Bank shall settle and close ORM/BoE wi th appropriate 
“Adjustment Indicator” in IDPMS. 
(xii) The above operational guidelines for extension and write off are meant to 
facilitate closure of bills in IDPMS and will be subject to extant guidelines on the 
matter and not absolve the importer from remitting / receiving the amount in case of 
change in circumstances. 
 
 
30 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 27 dated January 12, 2017 
31 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 27 dated January 12, 2017

[Page 23]
22  
(xiii) While allowing write off, AD Category - I banks must ensure that: 
a. The case is not the subject matter of any pending civil or criminal suit; 
b. The importer has not come to the adverse notice of the Enforcement 
Directorate or the Central Bureau of Investigation or any such other law 
enforcement agency; and 
c. There is a system in place under which internal inspectors or auditors of the 
AD category –  I banks (including external audit ors appointed by authorised 
dealers) should carry out random sample check / percentage check of write- off 
of import bills; 
(xiv) Extension and write off cases not covered by the extant guidelines may be 
referred to the concerned Regional Office of Reserve Bank of India for necessary 
approval. 
32(xv) The extant instructions and guidelines for Evidence of Import in Lieu of Bill of Entry  
will apply mutatis mutandis. The evidence of import in lieu of BoE in permitted/approved 
conditions will be created and uploaded by AD Category – I bank of the importer in the form 
of BoE data as per message format “Manual BOE reporting” in IDPMS. 
Follow-up for Evidence of Import 
33(xvi) AD Category –  I banks shall continue to follow up for outward remittance made for 
import (i.e. unsettled ORM) in terms of extant guidelines and instructions  on the subject. In 
cases where relevant evidence of import data is not available in IDPMS on due dates 
against the ORM, AD Category –  I bank shall follow up with the importer for submission of 
documentary evidence of import. Similarly, if BoE data is not settled against ORM within the 
prescribed period, AD Category – I banks shall follow up with the importer in terms of extent 
instructions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 27 dated January 12, 2017 
33 Modified vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 27  dated January 12, 2017 prior to modification it read as “AD Category – I 
banks are required to follow up for submission of prescribed documents for evidence of import in terms of extant guidelines on 
the subject”

[Page 24]
23  
34C.9. Verification and Preservation 
 
(i) Internal inspectors and IS auditors (including external auditors appointed by AD Category 
– I bank) should carry out verification and IS audit and assurance of the “BOE Settlement” 
process in IDPMS. Data and process followed by AD Category – I bank for “BOE  
Settlement” should be preserved in terms of the guidelines under Cyber Security  
Framework in the bank. 
(ii) Internal inspectors or auditors (including external auditors appointed by AD 
Category – I bank) should carry out verification of the documents evidencing import 
other than which are available in IDPMS, e.g. Exchange Control copies of Postal 
Appraisal Forms, or Customs Assessment Certificates, etc. 
(iii) Documents evidencing import into India should be preserved by AD Category – I 
bank for a period of one year from the date of their verification. However, in respect 
of cases which are under investigation by investigating agencies, documents , and/or 
data, process may be destroyed only after obtaining clearance from the invest igating 
agency concerned. 
C.10. Follow-up for Import Evidence 
(i) In case an importer does not furnish any documentary evidence of import, as 
required under paragraph C.7. of Section III, within 3 months from the date of 
remittance involving foreign exchange  35irrespective of value, the AD Category –  I 
bank should rigorously follow-up for the next 3 months, 36by using various modes of 
communications. It should, however, be ensured that atleast one communication 
with the importer in this regard is by issuance of registered letter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 Modified vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 27 dated January 12, 2017  prior to modification it read as “(i) Internal inspectors 
or auditors (including external auditors appointed by AD Category –  I bank) should carry out verification of the documents 
evidencing import, e.g. Exchange Control copies of Bills of Entry or Postal Appraisal Forms, or Customs Assessment 
Certificates, etc.  
35 Modified vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.65 dated April 28, 2016  prior to modification it read as “exceeding USD 
100,000” 
36 Modified. Prior to modification it read as “including issuing registered letters to the importer”

[Page 25]
24  
37(ii) In IDPMS, all outstanding import remittances, irrespective of the amount 
involved, should be reported by the AD Category -I banks. Further, submission of a 
separate BEF Statement by the AD Category -I bank would be required till the half 
year ended December 2017 and discontinued thereafter. 
38Omitted 
 
C.11 Import of Gold 
C.11.1 Import of Gold. 
i. The 20:80 scheme of import of gold was withdrawn on November 28, 2014. 
However, the obligation to export under the 20:80 scheme would apply to the 
unutilised gold imported before November 28, 2014. 
39ii. Nominated banks and nominated agencies, as notified by DGFT, are 
permitted to import gold on consignment basis. In addition to the above, 
qualified jewellers and Tariff Rate Quota Holders ( TRQ Holders) under India-
UAE CEPA, as notified by International Financial Services Centres  Authority 
(IFSCA) will be permitted to import gold under specific ITC (HS) Codes 
through India International Bullion Exchange IFSC Limited (IIBX). All sale of 
gold domestically will, however, be against upfront payment. Nominated 
banks are free to grant gold metal loans. 
40iii. The Status Holder Exporters shall adhere to the guidelines contained in extant 
Foreign Trade Policy, as amended from time to time. 
iv. The import of gold coins and medallions is permitted. However, prohibition on 
 
37 Modified. Prior to modification it read as” On operationalization of IDPMS, all outstanding import remittances, irrespective 
of the amount involved, will be reported into the system by banks and submission of a separate BEF statement would be 
discontinued from a date, to be notified separately”. which was modified vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.65 dated April 
28, 2016 prior to modification it read as “AD Category - I banks should henceforth submit a statement on half-yearly 
basis as at the end of June & December of every year, in form BEF furnishing details of import transactions, exceeding USD 
100,000 in respect of which importers have defaulted in submission of appropriate document evidencing import within 6 
months from the date of remittance using the online eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL)  system on a Bank-wide 
basis instead of the present system of branch -wise submission, to the respective Regional Offices  of the RBI. The Statement 
should be submitted within 15 days from the close of the half-year to which the statement relates.” 
 
38 Omitted 
39 Inserted consequent to issuance of DGFT's Notification dated January 05, 2022 on Amendment in import policy conditions of 
gold under Chapter 71 of Schedule-I (Import Policy) of ITC (HS), 2017 
40 Modified. Prior to modification it read as “Star and Premier Trading Houses (STH/PTH) can import gold on Document against 
Payment (DP) basis as per entitlement without any end use restrictions”. 
Clarification: Import by such entities, if permitted under FTP shall be on Document against Payment (DP) basis.

[Page 26]
25  
sale of gold coins and medallions by banks continues pending further review. 
41Head Offices / International Banking Divisions of AD Category -  I banks shall 
henceforth submit the following returns under Centralised Information Management 
System (CIMS ) having URL: https://sankalan.rbi.org.in from December 26, 2023  
onwards.  
(a) Return on half yearly basis (end March / end September), showing the quantity and 
value of gold imported by the nominated banks/ agencies/ qualified jewellers/ EOUs/ 
SEZs in Gem & Jewellery Sector, mode of payment -wise under return code R133 
named ‘Import of gold by EOUs, units in SEZ/EPZ and nominated agencies(HY)’ 
(b) Return on monthly basis showing the quantity and value of gold imports by the 
nominated agencies (other than the nominated banks)/ EOUs/ qualified jewellers / 
SEZs in Gem & Jewellery sector during the month under report as well as the 
cumulative position as at the end of the said month beginning from the 1st month of 
the Financial Year.  The return code  R132 is named as ‘ Import of gold by EOUs, 
units in SEZ/EPZ and nominated agencies(M)’.  Both the returns shall be submitted, 
even if there is 'Nil' position, by the 10th of the following month / half year, to which it 
relates 
C.11.2. Import of Gold Jewellery Including Jewellery Made of Precious Metals  
or/and Studded With Diamonds / Precious Stones /Semi-precious. 
Suppliers’ and Buyers’ credit (trade c redit) including the usance period of Letters of 
Credit opened for import of gold in any form, including jewellery made of 
gold/precious metals or/and studded with diamonds/semi- precious/precious stones, 
should not exceed 90 days from the date of shipment. 
C.11.3. Import of Gold by Qualified Jewellers as notified by IFSCA 
 
i. 42The following directions enable resident Qualified Jewellers to import  gold 
through IIBX or any other exchange approved by IFSCA and DGFT, Government 
of India: 
 
 
 
41 Inserted vide A.P.(Dir Series) Circular No. 12 dated December 22, 2023.  
42 Inserted vide A.P.(Dir Series) Circular No. 04 dated May 25, 2022.

[Page 27]
26  
a. AD banks may allow Qualified Jewellers to remit advance payments for 
eleven days for import of gold through IIBX in compliance to the extant 
Foreign Trade Policy and regulations issued under IFSC Act. AD banks 
shall ensure that advance remittance for such import through 
exchange/s authorised by IFSCA shall be as per the  terms of the sale 
contract or  other document in the nature of an irrevocable purchase 
order in terms of IFSC Act and regulations made thereunder by IFSCA. 
AD bank shall carry out  all the due diligence and ensure the 
remittances sent are only for the bona  fide import transactions through 
exchange/s authorised by IFSCA. 
b. The advance remittance for import of Gold should not be leveraged in 
what-so-ever form for importing Gold worth more than the advance 
remittance made. 
c. In case the import of Gold through IFSCA authorised exchange, for 
which advance remittance has been made, does not materialise, or the 
advance remittance made for the purpose is more than the amount 
required, the unutilized advance  remittance shall be remitted back to 
the same AD bank within the specified time limit of eleven days. 
d. For gold imported through IIBX, QJ shall submit the Bill of Entry (or any 
other such applicable document issued/approved by Customs 
Department for eviden ce of import), issued by Customs Authorities to 
the AD bank from where advance payment has been remitted. 
e. All payments by Qualified Jewellers for imports of gold through IIBX, 
shall be made through exchange mechanism as approved by IFSCA in 
terms of IFSC A ct and regulations. Any deviation from the extant 
guidelines for import of Gold through IIBX need to be approved in 
advance by IFSCA and other applicable and appropriate authority/ies. 
ii. IFSC Authority (IFSCA) will conduct all required due diligence on the exchange 
– IIBX including all other entities involved in enabling import of Gold by QJs in 
terms of the IFSCA regulations. IFSCA shall also put in place necessary system to 
ensure that the advance remittance received from QJs are solely for the purpose 
for import of gold through IIBX.

[Page 28]
27  
iii. AD bank shall ensure that: 
 
a.  all required documentation, custom duty related procedures and filing Bill 
of Entry (BoE) as evidence of import, etc. is complete for the import of 
gold by QJ within the specified applicable period. 
b. single/multiple ORMs created and matched with corresponding BoEs and 
closed appropriately in IDMPS. 
c. the importer – that is QJs comply with the related extant instructions 
relating to imports under FEMA, 1999, FTDR Act 1992, Foreign Trade 
Policy and regulations of IFSCA. 
AD banks may frame their own internal guidelines to deal with such cases, with 
the approval of their Board of Directors. 
iv. Reporting requirement by AD banks 
 
a. AD bank shall create Outward Remittance Message (ORM) for all such  
outward remittances in IDPMS in terms of extant guidelines. 
b. All these transactions need to be reported in FETERS in terms of extant 
guidelines. 
c. AD bank shall report the import of gold through QJ in CIMS as 
prescribed at para C.11.1 above. 
v. The above mentioned arrangement is for the sole purpose of facilitating physical 
import of gold through IIBX or any similar exchange authorised by IFSCA, by 
Qualified Jewellers in India. 
C.11.4 Import of gold by valid India- UAE CEPA Tariff Rate Quota Holders as 
notified by –The International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) 
AD Category -I banks may allow valid India- UAE CEPA Tariff Rate Quota (TRQ) 
Holders to remit advance payment for eleven days for import of gold through IIBX 
subject to the directions as mentioned in A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.04 dated 
May 25, 202243. 
C.12. Import of Other Precious Metals 
 
43 Inserted vide A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 14 dated January 31, 2024

[Page 29]
28  
C.12.1. Import of Platinum/ Palladium/ Rhodium/ Silver/ Rough, Cut & Polished 
Diamonds/ Precious and Semi-precious Stones. 
(a) Suppliers’ and Buyers’ Credit, including the usance period of Letters of Credit 
opened for import of Platinum, Palladium, Rhodiu m and Silver and rough, cut and 
polished Diamonds, Precious and semi-precious stones; should not exceed 90 days 
from the date of shipment. 
However, for Clean Credit i.e. credit given by a foreign supplier to its Indian 
customer/ buyer, without any Letter of Credit (Suppliers’ Credit)/ Letter of 
Undertaking (Buyers’ Credit)/ Fixed Deposits from any Indian financial institution for 
import of rough, cut  and polished diamonds, precious and semi -precious stones, 
may be permitted for a period not exceeding 180 days from the date of shipment. 
44Further, AD banks may allow extension of time in respect of such clean credit for 
import of rough, cut and polished  diamonds, for a period exceeding 180 days from  
the date of shipment to a maximum period of 180 days beyond the prescribed 
period/ due date beyond which they may refer the cases to the respective Regional 
Office of the Reserve Bank. Such extension by AD banks may be subject to the 
conditions such as: (i) AD banks being satisfied of the genuineness of the reason 
and bonafides of the transaction and also that no interest payment is involved for 
the additional period; (ii) reasons for such extension are due to financial difficulties 
and/ or quality disputes; (iii) importer is not under investigation and is not a frequent 
offender. AD banks may submit a half yearly report (half year shall be April - 
September and October -March) of such extensions allowed customer -wise, to the 
respective Regional Office of the Reserve Bank within 15 days of the end of the 
respective half year 45. 
(b) AD Category – I banks should ensure that due diligence is undertaken and 
Know Your Customer (KYC) norms and Anti -Money Laundering (AML) guidelines, 
issued by the Reserve Bank are adhered to while undertaking import of the 
precious metals and rough, cut and polished diamonds. Further, any large or 
abnormal increase in the volume of business should be closely examined to 
ensure that the t ransactions are bonafide and are not intended for interest / 
 
44 Inserted vide A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 57 dated March 31, 2016 
45 Updated. Prior to updation it read as “AD banks may submit a half yearly report of such extensions allowed 
customer-wise, to the respective Regional Office of the Reserve Bank.”

[Page 30]
29  
currency arbitrage. 
C.12.2. Import of Platinum / Silver on Unfixed Price Basis 
The nominated agency/bank may allow import of platinum and silver, on outright 
purchase basis subject to the condition that although ownership of the same shall  
be passed on to the importers at the time of import itself, the price shall be fixed  
later as and when the importer sells to the user. 
 
C.12.3 Import of Silver by Qualified Jewellers as notified by – The International 
Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) 46 
 
AD Category -I banks may allow Qualified Jewellers to remit advance payment for 
eleven days for import of silver through IIBX s ubject to the conditions as mentioned in 
A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.04 dated May 25, 2022. 
 
C.13. Import Factoring 
(i) AD Category –  I bank may enter into arrangements with international factoring 
companies of repute, preferably members of Factors Chain International, without  
the approval of Reserve Bank. 
(ii) They will have to ensure compliance with the extant foreign exchange directions 
relating to imports, Foreign Trade Policy in force and any other guidelines/directives 
issued by Reserve Bank in this regard. 
C.14. Merchanting Trade47 
C.14.1. AD banks may handle the Merchanting Trade Transactions (MTT) subject 
to the following guidelines: 
i. For a trade to be classified as mer chanting trade, goods acquired shall not 
enter the Domestic Tariff Area. 
ii. Considering that in some cases, the goods acquired may require certain 
specific processing/ value- addition, the state of goods so acquired may be 
allowed transformation subject to the AD bank being satisfied with the 
documentary evidence and bonafides of the transaction. 
 
46 Inserted vide A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 07 dated November 10, 2023 
47 Revised guidelines on merchanting trade transactions issued vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.20 dated  
January 23, 2020 in supersession of guidelines contained in A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.115 dated March 28,  
2014.

[Page 31]
30  
iii. The MTT shall be undertaken for the goods that are permitted for exports / 
imports under the prevailing Foreign Trade Policy (FTP) of India as on the 
date of shipment. All rules, regulations and directions applicable to exports 
(except Export Declaration Form) and imports (except Bill of Entry) shall be 
complied with for the export leg and import leg respectively. 
iv. AD bank shall satisfy itself with the bonafides of the transactions. Further, 
KYC and AML guidelines shall be scrupulously adhere d to by the AD bank 
while handling such transactions. 
v. The entire merchanting trade is to be routed through the same AD bank. The 
AD bank shall verify the documents like invoice, packing list, transport 
documents and insurance documents (if originals are not available, Non-  
negotiable copies duly authenticated by the bank handling documents may  
be taken) and satisfy itself about the genuineness of the trade. The AD bank 
may, if satisfied, rely on online verification of Bill of Lading/ Airway Bill on the 
website of International Maritime Bureau or Airline web check facilities. 
However, the AD bank shall ensure that the requisite details are made 
available /retrievable at the time of Inspection/Audit/investigation of the 
transactions. 
vi. The entire MTT shall be co mpleted within an overall period of nine months 
and there shall not be any outlay of foreign exchange beyond six  months48. 
The commencement date of merchanting trade shall be the date of shipment 
/ export leg receipt or import leg payment, whichever is first. The completion 
date shall be the date of shipment / export leg receipt or import leg payment, 
whichever is the last. 
vii. Short-term credit either by way of suppliers' credit or buyers' credit may be 
extended for MTT to the extent not backed by advance remittance for the 
export leg, including the discounting of export leg LC by the AD bank, as in 
the case of import transactions. However, Letter of Undertaking (LoU)/ Letter 
of Comfort (LoC) shall not be issued for supplier’s/ buyer’s credit. 
viii. Any receipts for the export leg, prior to the payment for import leg, may be 
parked either in Exchange Earners Foreign Currency (EEFC) account or in  
an interest -bearing INR account till the import leg liability arises. It shall be 
strictly earmarked/ lien-marked for the payment of import leg and the liability 
of the import leg, as soon as it arises, shall be extinguished out of these  
funds without any delay. If such receipts are kept in interest -bearing INR 
account, hedging thereof may be allowed by the AD bank at the request of its 
customer, as per extant regulations. No fund/non- fund-based facilities shall 
be extended against these balances. 
ix. In case of discounting of export leg LC where payment for import leg is still to 
be made (even if partially), the pr oceeds shall be utilized in the manner 
prescribed at point no. 2 (viii) above. 
x. Payment for import leg may also be allowed to be made out of the balances  
 
48 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 11 dated October 01, 2025

[Page 32]
31  
in EEFC account of the merchant trader. 
xi. Merchanting traders may be allowed to make advance payment for the  
import leg on demand made by the overseas supplier. In case where inward 
remittance from the overseas buyer is not received before the outward 
remittance to the overseas supplier, AD bank may handle such transactions 
based on its commercial judgement. It may, however, be ensured that any 
such advance payment for an import leg beyond USD 500,000/ - per 
transaction, shall be made against Bank Guarantee / an unconditional, 
irrevocable standby Letter of Credit from an international bank of repute. 
Overall prudential limits on allowing such advance payments by a customer 
may be fixed by the AD bank. 
xii. Letter of Credit to the supplier for the import leg is permitted against 
confirmed export order, keeping in view the foreign exchange outlay of six  
months and completion of the MTT within nine months and subject to 
compliance with the instructions issued by Department of Banking Regulation 
on “Guarantees and Co-acceptances”, as amended from time to time. 
xiii. AD bank shall ensure one- to-one matching in case of each MTT and report 
defaults in any leg by the traders to the concerned Regional Office of the 
Reserve Bank, on half yearly basis in the format as annexed, within 15 days 
from the close of each half year, i.e. June and December; 
xiv. Merchant traders with  outstanding of 5% or more of their annual export 
earnings shall be liable for caution listing. 
 
C.14.2 The merchanting traders shall be genuine traders of goods and not mere 
financial intermediaries. Confirmed orders must be received by them from the 
overseas buyers. AD banks shall satisfy themselves about the capabilities of the 
merchanting trader to perform the obligations under the order. The merchanting 
trade shall result in profit which shall be determined by subtracting import 
payments and related expenses from export proceeds for the specific MTT. 
C.14.3 Write-off of unrealized amount of export leg: 
i. AD bank may write -off the unrealized amount of export leg, without any 
ceiling, on the request made by the Merchanting trader, in the following 
circumstances: 
a. The MTT buyer has been declared insolvent and a certificate from the  
official liquidator specifying that there is no possibility of recovery of export 
proceeds has been produced. 
b. The goods exported have been auctioned or destroyed by the Port / 
Customs / Health authorities in the importing country and a certificate to that 
effect has been produced. 
c. The unrealized amount of the export leg represents the balance due in a 
case settled through the intervention of the Indian Embassy, Foreign

[Page 33]
32  
Chamber of Commerce or similar Organization; 
provided, the MTT is in adherence to all other provisions except the 
delays in timelines (either for outlay or completion period of MTT or both) 
attributed to reasons mentioned at a, b and c above. 
 
ii. In addition to above,  write-off as at (i) shall be subject to following 
conditions: 
a. AD bank shall satisfy itself with the bonafides of the transactions and ensure 
that there are no KYC/AML concerns. 
b. The transaction shall not be under investigation under FEMA by any of the 
investigating agency/ies. 
c. The counterparty to the merchant trader is not from a country or jurisdiction 
in the updated FATF Public Statement on High Risk & Non- Co-operative 
Jurisdictions on which FATF has called for counter measures. 
C.14. 4 Third Party payments 
Third party payments for export and import legs of the MTT are not allowed. 
C.14.5 Payment of Agency Commission 
Agency commission is not allowed in MTTs. However, AD banks may allow 
payment of agency commission up to a reasonable extent by way of outward 
remittance under exceptional circumstances, subject to the following conditions: 
a. MTT has been completed in all respects. 
b. The payment of agency commission shall not result in the MTT ending into 
a loss. 
c. The Merchanting trader shall make a specific request to the AD bank in 
this regard. 
 
C.14.6 AD bank may approach Regional Office (RO) concerned of the Reserve 
Bank for regularization of the MTT for deviation, if any, from the prescribed 
guidelines and the MTT shall be closed only after receiving approval fr om the RO 
concerned of the Reserve Bank.

[Page 34]
33  
 
C.14.7 Reporting for merchanting trade transactions under FETERS shall be done 
on gross basis, against the undermentioned codes: 
 
Trade Purpose Code 
under FETERS 
Description 
Export P0108 Goods sold under merchanting /receipt against 
export leg of merchanting trade 
Import S0108 Goods acquired under merchanting /payment 
against import leg of merchanting trade 
 
C.14.8. Merchanting trade to Nepal and Bhutan 
As Nepal and Bhutan are landlocked countries, there is a facility of transit 
trade whereby goods are imported from third countries by Nepal and Bhutan 
through India under the cover of Customs Transit Declarations in terms of the 
Government of India Treaty of Transit with these two countries. In consultation with 
Government of India, it is clarified herein that goods consigned to the importers of 
Nepal and Bhutan from third countries under merchanting trade from India would 
qualify as traffic -in-transit, if the goods are otherwise compliant with the 
provisions of the India-Nepal Treaty of Transit and Indo- Bhutan Treaty of Transit 
respectively. 
C.15. Processing of import related payments through Online Payment Gateway  
Service Providers (OPGSPs) 
AD Category-l banks have been permitted to offer facility of payment for imports of 
goods and software of value not exceeding USD 2,000 by entering into standing 
arrangements with the OPGSPs subject to the following:- 
(a) The balances held in the Import Collection account shall be remitted to the 
respective overseas exporter's account immediately on receipt of funds from the 
importer and, in no case, later than two days from the date of credit to the collection 
account. 
(b) The AD Category – I bank will obtain a copy of invoice and airway bill from the 
OPGSP containing the name and address of the beneficiary as evidence of import

[Page 35]
34  
and report the transaction in R-Return under the foreign currency payment head. 
(c) The permitted credits in the OPGSP Import Collection account will be: 
(i) collection from Indian importers for online purchases from overseas 
exporters electronically through credit card, debit card and net banking and 
(ii) charge back from the overseas exporters. 
(d) The permitted debits in the OPGSP Import Collection account will be: 
(i) payment to overseas exporters in permitted foreign currency; 
(ii) payment to Indian importers for returns and refunds; 
(iii) payment of commission at rates/frequencies as defined under the contract to 
the current account of the OPGSP; and 
(iv) bank charges 
49C.16. Settlement of Import transactions in currencies not having a direct exchange 
rate 
To further liberalize the procedure and facilitate settlement of import transactions 
where the invoicing is in a freely convertible currency and the settlement takes  
place in the currency of the beneficiary, which though convertible, does not have a 
direct exchange rate, it has been decided that AD Category -I banks may permit 
settlement of such import transactions (excluding those put through the ACU 
mechanism), subject to conditions as under: 
(a) Importer shall be a customer of the AD Bank, 
(b) Signed contract / invoice is in a freely convertible currency, 
(c) The beneficiary is willing to receive the payment in the currency of  
beneficiary instead of the original (freely convertible) currency of the invoice/ 
contract, Letter of Credit as full and final settlement, 
(d) AD bank is satisfied with the bonafides of the transactions, and 
(e) The counterparty to the i mporter of the AD bank is not from a country or 
jurisdiction in the updated FATF Public Statement on High Risk & Non Co-  
operative Jurisdictions on which FATF has called for counter measures. 
 
 
49 Inserted vide AP (DIR) Series Circular 42 dated February 4, 2016

[Page 36]
35  
 
50C.17 Import Data Processing and Monitoring System (IDPMS) – reconciliation of 
import entries – Special Procedure 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this master direction, AD banks shall adopt the 
following procedure while closing entries (including outstanding entries) in IDPMS of 
value equivalent to ₹10 lakh per entry/bill or less: 
a. Such entries shall be reconciled and closed based on a declaration provided by the 
concerned importer that the amount has been paid. 
b. Any reduction in declared value or invoice value of the bills of entry shall also be 
accepted, based on the declaration by the concerned importer.  
c. The declarations referred above may also be received on a quarterly basis from the 
importers in a consolidated manner (by combining several bills in one declaration) for 
bulk reconciliation and closing of IDPMS entries. 
ii. Accordlingly, AD banks shall  also review the charges levied for handling these 
small-value import transactions, keeping in view the revised procedure/relaxations 
mentioned above and ensure that the same are commensurate wi th the services 
rendered. AD banks shall not levy any penal charges (penalty) for delays in adherence 
to any regulatory guidelines. 
 
50 Inserted vide AP (DIR) Series Circular 12 dated October 01, 2025

[Page 37]
36  
Appendix 
Consolidated List of Circulars on Import of Goods and Services 
Sr. 
No 
AP (DIR 
Series) 
Circular No 
Subject Date of 
Circular 
1 106 Import of goods and services into India. June 19, 
2003 
2 4 Merchanting Trade Transactions – Clarifications 
- Short term credit 
July 19, 
2003 
3 9 Evidence of Import – Liberalisation August 18, 
2003 
4 15 Advance Remittance for Imports September 
17, 2003 
5 49 Advance Remittance for Imports December 
15, 2003 
6 66 Imports into India – Direct Receipt of Import 
Bills/Documents 
February 6, 
2004 
7 72 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 - 
Import of Goods into India – Evidence of Import 
February 20, 
2004 
8 2 Import of Gold by (i) Export Oriented Units 
(EOUs), (ii) Units in SEZ/EPZ, and (iii) 
Nominated Agencies 
July 9, 
2004 
9 34 Import of Gold on Loan Basis – Tenor of Loan 
and Opening of Stand-By Letter of Credit 
February 18, 
2005 
10 1 Import of Goods of Value USD 100,000 and 
Less -Clarification on Follow up for Evidence of 
Import 
July 12, 
2005 
11 33 Liberalisation of Export and Import procedures February 28, 
2007 
12 34 Import of Goods of Value USD 100,000 and 
Less -Clarification on Follow up for Evidence of 
Import 
March 2, 
2007 
13 63 Import of Equipments by BPO Companies in 
India for International Call Centre 
May 25, 
2007 
14 77 Advance Remittance for Import of aircrafts / 
helicopters / other aviation related purchases 
June 29, 
2007 
15 18 Direct Receipt of Import Bills / Documents - 
Liberalisation 
November 7, 
2007 
16 37 Direct Receipt of Import Bills / Documents for 
Import of Rough Precious & Semi -Precious 
Stones 
April 16, 
2008 
17 03 Advance Remittance for Import of Rough 
Diamonds 
August 4, 
2008

[Page 38]
37  
 
18 08 Advance Remittance for Import of Rough 
Diamonds 
August 21, 
2008 
19 09 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999- 
Advance Remittance for Import of Goods -  
Liberalisation 
August 21, 
2008 
20 12 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 – 
Import of Platinum / Palladium / Rhodium / Silver 
August 28, 
2008 
21 13 Direct Receipt of Import Bills / Documents - 
Liberalisation 
September 
1, 2008 
22 15 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 – 
Advance Remittances for Import of Services 
September 
8, 2008 
23 21 Advance Remittance for Import of Rough 
Diamonds 
December 
29, 2009 
24 56 Advance Remittance for Import of Goods – 
Liberalisation 
April 29, 
2011 
25 59 Import of rough, cut and polished diamonds May 06, 
2011 
26 82 Release of Foreign Exchange for Imports – 
Further Liberalisation 
February 
21, 2012 
27 83 Import of Gold on Loan Basis - Tenor of Loan 
and Opening of Stand - By Letter of Credit 
February 
27, 2012 
28 103 Data on import of Gold – Statements – 
Modification 
April 03, 
2012 
29 83 Import of precious and semi precious stones- 
Clarification 
February 
20, 2013 
30 103 Import of Gold by Nominated Banks/Agencies May 13, 
2013 
31 107 Import of Gold by Nominated Banks/Agencies June 4, 
2013 
32 122 Import of Gold by Nominated Banks/Agencies June 27, 
2013 
33 15 Import of Gold by Nominated Banks 
/Agencies/Entities 
July 22, 
2013 
34 39 Export import of Currency September 
6, 2013 
35 70 Third party payments for export / import 
transactions 
November 
8, 2013 
36 71 Advance Remittance for Import of Rough 
Diamonds 
November 
8, 2013 
37 73 Import of Gold by Nominated Banks 
/Agencies/Entities 
November 
11, 2013

[Page 39]
38  
 
38 82 Import of Gold by Nominated 
Banks/Agencies/Entities 
December 
31, 2013 
39 95 Merchanting Trade Transactions January 
17, 2014 
40 100 Third party payments for export / import 
transactions 
February 
04, 2014 
41 103 Import of Gold / Gold Dore by Nominated Banks 
/Agencies /Entities - Clarifications 
February 
14, 2014 
42 115 Merchanting Trade Transactions - Revised 
guidelines 
March 28, 
2014 
43 116 Advance Remittance for Import of Rough 
Diamonds 
April 01, 
2014 
44 122 Trade Credits for Imports into India – Review of 
all-in-cost ceiling 
April 10, 
2014 
45 133 Import of Gold by Nominated Banks / Agencies / 
Entities 
May 21, 
2014 
46 146 Export & Import of Currency- Enhanced Facilities June 19, 
2014 
47 2 Import of Rough, Cut and Polished Diamonds - 
credit relaxation 
July 07, 
2014 
48 42 Import of Gold by Nominated Banks/Agencies November 
28, 2014 
49 76 Form A1- Payments for Imports - Discontinuance 
thereof 
February 
12, 2015 
50 79 Guidelines on Import of Gold by Nominated 
Banks / Agencies 
February 
18, 2015 
51 96 Merchanting Trade to Nepal and Bhutan April 30, 
2015 
52 16 Processing and settlement of import and export 
related payments facilitated by Online Payment 
Gateway Service Providers 
September 
24, 2015 
53 29 Import of Goods into India – Evidence of Import November 
26, 2015 
54 30 Advance Remittance for Import of aircrafts / 
helicopters /other aviation related purchases 
November 
26, 2015 
55 42 Settlement of Export/ Import transactions in 
currencies not having a direct exchange rate 
February 
4, 2016 
56 57 Import of Rough, Cut and Polished Diamonds March 31, 
2016 
57 65 Import of goods- Import Data Processing and 
Monitoring System (IDPMS) 
April 28, 
2016 
58 05 Import Data Processing and Monitoring System 
(IDPMS) 
October 
06, 2016 
59 11[(1)/14(R)] Foreign Exchange Management (Manner of 
Receipt and Payment) Regulations 2016 
October 
20, 2016

[Page 40]
39  
 
60 27 Evidence of Import under Import Data Processing 
and Monitoring System (IDPMS) 
January 
12, 2017 
61 33 Import of goods and services- Extension of time limits 
for Settlement of import payment 
May 22, 
2020 
62 04 Guidelines on import of gold by Qualified Jewellers 
as notified by – The International Financial Services 
Centers Authority (IFSCA) 
May 25, 
2022 
63 13 Use of any Alternative reference rate in place of 
LIBOR for interest payable in respect of export / 
import transactions 
September 
28, 2021 
64 07 Guidelines on import of silver by Qualified 
Jewellers as notified by –  The International 
Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) 
November 
10, 2023 
65 12 CIMS Project implementation - Discontinuation 
of submission in legacy XBRL 
December 
22, 2023 
66 14 Guidelines on import of gold by Tariff Rate 
Quota (TRQ) holders under the India- UAE 
CEPA as notified by –The International Financial 
Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) 
January 31, 
2024 
67 07 Import of Shipping Vessel – Relaxation June 13, 
2025 
68 11 Merchanting Trade Transactions (MTT) – 
Review of time period for outlay of foreign 
exchange 
October 01, 
2025 
69 12 Export Data Processing and Monitoring System 
(EDPMS) & Import Data Processing and 
Monitoring System (IDPMS) –  reconciliation of 
export /import entries – Review of Guidelines 
October 01, 
2025 
70 19 Foreign Exchange Management (Guarantees) 
Regulations, 2026 
January 12, 
2026
