[Page 1]
RBI/FED/2017-18/14 
FED Master Direction No. 19/2015-16                                             January 1, 2016 
                                                                                    (Updated as on May 13, 2026) 
                                                                          (Updated as on November 12, 2018) 
                                                                         (Updated as on September 10, 2018) 
(Updated as on July 28, 2017) 
                                                                            (Updated as on June 16, 2017) 
 
To, 
All Authorised Dealer Category – I banks and Authorised banks 
Madam / Dear Sir, 
Master Direction - Miscellaneous 
Reserve Bank of India has issued Master Directions consolidating relevant A.P (DIR 
Series) Circulars issued so far within the ambit of the relevant regulations, amended 
up to date. The circulars/ instructions have been grouped into the Master Directions 
on the basis of the classes of transactions they pertain to. Instructions which do not 
figure in any of the other Master Directions have been compiled under this Master 
Direction. The List of the Circulars is given as an appendix. 
2. Within the contours of the Regulations, Reserve Bank of Indi a also issues 
directions to Authorised Persons under Section 11 of the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act (FEMA), 1999. These directions lay down the modalities as to how 
the foreign exchange business has to be conducted by the Authorised Persons with 
their customers/ constituents with a view to implementing the regulations framed. 
3. It may be noted that, whenever necessary, Reserve Bank shall issue directions to 
Authorised Persons through A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars in regard to any change in 
the Regulations or the manner in which relative transactions are to be conducted by 
the Authorised Persons with their customers/ constituents. The Master Direction 
issued herewith shall be amended suitably simultaneously.  
 
  Yours faithfully, 
 
 
                                           (N Senthil Kumar)  
Chief General Manager

[Page 2]
1 
 
 
Master Direction - Miscellaneous 
1) Remittances to non-residents – Deduction of Tax at Source 
On the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) revising the existing instructions to be 
followed while allowing remittances to the non- residents, Reserve Bank of India has 
clarified that it will not be issuing instructions under Foreign Exchange Management 
Act, 1999 (FEMA), clarifying tax issues. The Authorised Dealers are required to  
comply with the requirement of the tax laws, as applicable. 
2) Repatriation of income and sale proceeds of assets held abroad by NRIs 
who have returned to India for permanent settlement and repatriation of 
income and sale proceeds of assets acquired abroad through remittances 
under Liberalised Remittance Scheme – Clarification 
(a) in terms of sub-section 4 of Section (6) of FEMA, a person resident in India is free 
to hold, own, transfer or invest  in foreign currency, foreign security or any 
immovable property situated outside India if such currency, security or property was 
acquired, held or owned by such person when he was resident outside India or 
inherited from a person who was resident outside India.  
(b) Sub-section 4 of Section (6) of FEMA covers the following transactions:  
i. Foreign currency accounts opened and maintained by such a person when he 
was resident outside India; 
ii. Income earned through employment or business or vocation outside India 
taken up or commenced while such person was resident outside India, or from 
investments made while such person was resident outside India, or from gift 
or inheritance received while such a person was resident outside India; 
iii. Foreign exchange including any income arising therefrom, and conversion or 
replacement or accrual to the same, held outside India by a person resident in 
India acquired by way of inheritance from a person resident outside India. 
iv. A person resident in India may freely utilise all their eligible assets  abroad as 
well as income on such assets or sale proceeds thereof received after their 
return to India for making any payments or to make any fresh investments

[Page 3]
2 
 
abroad without approval of Reserve Bank, provided the cost of such 
investments and/ or any subsequent payments received therefor are met 
exclusively out of funds forming part of eligible assets held by them and the 
transaction is not in contravention to extant FEMA provisions. 
(b) an investor can retain and reinvest the income earned on investments m ade 
under the Liberalised Remittance Scheme. 
3) Resident bank account maintained by residents in India  - Joint holder -
liberalization 
Individuals resident in India are permitted to include non- resident Indian (NRI) close 
relative (s) (NRI as defined in regulation 2(vi) of 1 Notification No. FEMA 5(R)/2016-
RB dated April 01, 2016  as amended from time to time and relative as defined in  2 
Section 2 (77) of the Companies Act, 2013)  as a joint holder(s) in 3 all types of 
resident bank accounts on “Either or Survivor” basis subject to the following 
conditions: 
a. Such account will be treated as resident bank account for all purposes and all 
regulations applicable to a resident bank account shall be applicable. 
b. Cheques, instruments, remittances, cash, card or any other proceeds 
belonging to the NRI close relative shall not be eligible for credit to this 
account. 
c. The NRI close relative shall operate such account only for and on behalf of 
the resident for domestic payment and not for creating any beneficial interest 
for himself. 
d. Where the NRI close relative becomes a joint holder with more than one 
resident in such account, such NRI close relative should be the close relative 
of all the resident bank account holders. 
e. Where due to any eventuality, the non- resident account holder becomes the 
survivor of such an account, it shall be categorized as Non- Resident Ordinary 
Rupee (NRO) account as per the extant regulations. 
 
1 FEMA 5/2000-RB dated May 03, 2000 has been replaced with FEMA 5(R)/2016-RB dated April 01, 2016. 
2 “Section 6 of the Companies Act, 1956” has been replaced with “Section 2(77) of the Companies Act, 2013” 
3 “Resident savings account” replaced with “all types of resident bank accounts” as the instructions are applicable to all types of 
resident accounts.

[Page 4]
3 
 
f. Onus will be on the non- resident account holder to keep AD bank informed to 
get the account categorized as NRO account and all such regulations as 
applicable to NRO account shall be applicable. 
g. The above joint account holder facility may be extended to all types of 
resident accounts including savings bank account. 
While extending this facility the AD bank should satisfy itself about the actual need 
for such a facility and also obtain the following declaration duly signed by the non-
resident account holder: 
 “I am the joint account holder of SB/FD/RD/Current Account bearing No ……. which 
stands in my name and in the name of Shri/Smt. ……….. who is my ………. (state 
relationship). I hereby undertake that I shall not use the proceeds lying in the above 
account for any transaction in contravention of the provisions of the Foreign 
Exchange Management Act (FEMA) 1999, Rules/Regulations made thereunder and 
the related circulars/instructions issued by the Reserve Bank from time to time. I 
further undertake that if any such transaction is put through the said account in 
contravention of the FEMA, 1999 or Rules/Regulations made thereunder, I shall be 
held responsible for the same. I shall intimate my bank in the event of any change in 
my Non-resident / Resident status.” 
4) Meeting of Medical expenses of NRI close relatives by Resident Individuals 
Where the medical expenses in respect of NRI close relative ( NRI as defined in 
regulation 2(vi) of 4 Notification No. FEMA 5(R)/2016- RB dated April 01, 2016  , as 
amended from time to time and relative as defined in  5Section 2(77) of the 
Companies Act, 2013) are paid by a resident individual  when the NRI is on a visit to 
India, such a payment , although being in the nature of a resident to resident 
transaction, will be covered under the term “services related th ereto” under 
Regulation 2(i) Notification No. FEMA 16/ 2000- RB dated May 3, 2000, ibid. 
5) Routing of funds raised abroad to India 
(a) Indian companies or their AD Category – I banks are not allowed to issue any 
direct or indirect guarantee or create any contingent liability or offer any security in 
 
4 FEMA 5/2000-RB dated May 03, 2000 has been replaced with FEMA 5(R)/2016-RB dated April 01, 2016. 
 
5 “Section 6 of the Companies Act, 1956” has been replaced with “Section 2(77) of the Companies Act, 2013”

[Page 5]
4 
 
any form for such borrowings by their overseas holding/ associate/ subsidiary/ group 
companies except for the purposes explicitly permitted in the relevant Regulations. 
(b) Further, funds raised abroad by overseas holding/ associate/ subsidiary / group 
companies of Indian companies with support of the Indian companies or their AD 
Category – I ba nks as mentioned at (i) above cannot be used in India unless it 
conforms to the general or specific permission granted under the relevant 
Regulations. 
(c) Indian companies or their AD Category – I banks using or establishing structures 
which contravene the  above shall render themselves liable for penal action as 
prescribed under FEMA, 1999. 
6) Constitution of Special Investigating Team – sharing of information 
In pursuance of the Hon’ble Supreme Court Judgment dated July 4, 2011, 
Government of India constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) under the 
Chairmanship of Hon’ble Justice M.B. Shah. In this regard, the Hon’ble Supreme 
Court has directed that: 
“All organisations,  agencies, departments and agents of the State, whether at the 
level of the Union of India, or the State Government, including but not limited to all 
statutorily formed individual bodies, and other constitutional bodies extend all the 
cooperation necessary for the functioning of the Special Investigation Team. 
The Union of India and where needed the State Government will facilitate the 
conduct of the investigations, in their fullest measures, by the Special Investigation 
Team and functioning, by extending all necessary financial, material, legal, 
diplomatic and intelligence resources, whether such investigations or portions of 
such investigations occur inside the country or abroad.” All Authorised Persons are 
advised to ensure that information/ documents required by the SIT are made 
available, as and when required. 
7) Crystallization of Inoperative Foreign Currency Deposits – Reserve Bank 
(Depositor Education and Awareness Fund) Scheme, 2014 
With the objective of aligning the instructions in respect of foreign currency accounts 
with the Reserve Bank  (Depositor Education and Awareness Fund) Scheme, 2014 , 
Authorised Dealer banks are required to crystallise, that is, convert the credit

[Page 6]
5 
 
balances in any inoperative foreign currency denominated deposit into Indian Rupee, 
in the manner indicated below: 
(a) In case a foreign currency denominated deposit with a fixed maturity date 
remains inoperative for a period of three years from the date of maturity of the 
deposit, at the end of the third year, the authorised bank shall convert the 
balances lying in the foreign currency denominated deposit into Indian Rupee 
at the exchange rate prevailing as on that date. Thereafter, the depositor shall 
be entitled to claim either t he said Indian Rupee proceeds and interest 
thereon, if any, or the foreign currency equivalent (calculated at the rate 
prevalent as on the date of payment) of the Indian Rupee proceeds of the 
original deposit and interest, if any, on such Indian Rupee proceeds. 
(b) In case of foreign currency denominated deposit with no fixed maturity 
period, if the deposit remains inoperative for a period of three years (debit of 
bank charges not to be reckoned as operation), the authorised bank shall, 
after giving a three month notice to the depositor at his last known address as 
available with it, convert the deposit from the foreign currency in which it is 
denominated to Indian Rupee at the end of the notice period at the prevailing 
exchange rate. Thereafter, the depositor shall be entitled to claim either the 
said Indian Rupee proceeds and interest thereon, if any, or the foreign 
currency equivalent (calculated at the rate prevalent as on the date of 
payment) of the Indian Rupee proceeds of the original deposit and inter est, if 
any, on such Indian Rupee proceeds.  
8) Operational guidelines on International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) 
In terms of the Foreign Exchange Management (International Financial Services 
Centre) Regulations, a financial institution or a branch of a financial institution set up 
in the IFSC and permitted / recognised as such by the Government or a Regulatory 
Authority will be treated as person resident outside India. Therefore, their transaction 
with a person resident in India will be treated as a transaction between a resident 
and non- resident and shall be subject to the provisions of Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 and the Rules/ Regulations/ Directions issued thereunder.

[Page 7]
6 
 
The financial transaction in this context shall mean making or receiving payment, 
drawing, issuing or negotiating any bills of exchange or promissory note, transferring 
any security or acknowledging any debt. Similarly, financial service shall mean any 
activity which a financial instit ution is permitted to carry on by the respective Act of 
the Parliament or Government of India or any Regulatory Authority empowered to 
regulate the concerned financial institution. 
9) Regularisation of assets held abroad by a person resident in India under 
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999  
To effectively deal with assets held abroad by persons resident in India in violation of 
the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA) for which declarations have 
been made and taxes and penalties have been paid under the provisions of the 
Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 
2015, it is clarified that: 
a) No proceedings shall lie under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 
1999 (FEMA) against the declarant with respect to an asset held abroad for 
which taxes and penalties under the provisions of Black Money Act have been 
paid. 
b) No permission under FEMA will be required to dispose of the asset so 
declared and bring back the proceeds to India through banking channels 
within 180 days from the date of declaration. 
c) In case the declarant wishes to hold the asset so declared, she/ he may 
apply to the Reserve Bank of India within 180 days from the date of 
declaration if such permission is necessary as on date of application. Such 
applications will be dealt by the Reserve Bank of India as per extant 
regulations. In case such permission is not granted, the asset will have to be 
disposed of within 180 days from the date of receipt of the communication 
from the Reserve Bank conveying refusal of permission or within such 
extended period as may be permitted by the Reserve Bank and proceeds 
brought back to India immediately through the banking channel.

[Page 8]
7 
 
10) [Omitted]6  
 
6 Paragraph 10 omitted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 10 dated May 13, 2026 . Prior to omission, it read as follows (the 
words in italics were inserted on July 28, 2017, and words underlined were inserted with effect from September 07, 2018): 
Operating framework for facilitating Outward Remittance services by non -bank entities through Authorized Dealer 
(Category I) banks in India 
The non-bank entities may obtain specific approval for each tie-up arrangement from the Reserve Bank for facilitating outward 
remittance services through Authorized Dealer (Category I) banks in India to effect outward remittances. 
The governing conditions for this arrangement are as under: 
1. The Authorized Dealer (Category I) bank through which the service is being offered shall be responsible for ensuring 
that each outward remittance transaction is in compliance with the provisions of governing regulations in India. 
2. The said Authorized Dealer (Category I) bank shall be responsible for ensuring compliance to KYC/ AML standards/ 
CFT issued by the Reserve Bank. 
3. The remittances facilitated under this model shall comprise small value transactions, not exceeding USD 5000 per 
transaction, except for overseas education where the limit shall be USD 10000 per transaction . Remittances by 
resident individuals will be subject to the limit prescribed under the Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS). 
4. Only current account transactions, in the nature of personal remittances, shall be permitted under this model. The 
transactions permitted are as follows: 
a. Private Visits, 
b. Remittance by tour operators / travel agents to overseas agents / principals / hotels, 
c. Business Travel, 
d. Fee for participation in global conferences and specialized training, 
e. Remittance for participation in international events / competitions (towards training, sponsorship and prize 
money). 
f. Film shooting, 
g. Medical Treatment abroad, 
h. Disbursement of crew wages, 
i. Overseas Education, 
j. Remittance under educational tie up arrangements with universities abroad, 
k. Remittance towards fees for examinations held in India and abroad and additional score sheets for GRE, 
TOEFL etc., 
l. Employment and processing, assessment fees for overseas job applications, 
m. Emigration and Emigration Consultancy Fees, 
n. Skills/ credential assessment fees for intending migrants, 
o. Visa fees, 
p. Processing fees for registration of documents as required by the Portuguese/ other Governments, 
q. Registration/ Subscription/ Membership fees to International Organizations. 
5. Trade transactions are permitted subject to limits and other conditions prescribed for imports under Online Payment 
Gateway Service Providers (OPGSP)

[Page 9]
8 
 
Appendix 
Sl No Subject AP (DIR 
Series) 
Circular No 
Date 
1 Remittances to non -residents – Deduction of 
Tax at Source:  
151 30.06.2014 
2 Clarification on section 6(4) of FEMA; 
Repatriation of income and sale proceeds of 
assets acquired abroad through remittances 
under Liberalised Remittance Scheme  
37 
90 
19.10.2011  
09.01.2014 
3 Resident bank account maintained by 
residents in India with NRI close relatives as 
Joint holders 
87 09.01.2014 
4 Resident individuals meeting m edical 
expenses of NRI close re latives by Resident 
Individuals 
20 16.09.2011 
5 Routing of funds raised abroad to India 41 25.09.2014 
6 Sharing of information with Special 
Investigating Team 
18 30.07.2014 
7 Crystallization of Inoperative Foreign 
Currency Deposits – Reserve Bank 
(Depositor Educat ion and Awareness Fund) 
Scheme 
136 28.05.2014 
8 Operational guidelines on International 
Financial Services Centre (IFSC) 
92 31.03.2015 
9 Regularisation of assets held abroad by a 
person resident in India under Foreign 
Exchange Management Act, 1999  
18 30.09.2015 
10 Operating framework for facilitating Outward 
Remittance services by non- bank entities 
through Authorized Dealer (Category I) banks 
in India 
10 13.05.2026 
 
 
6. The remittances shall be permitted only for fund transfers from one bank account to another bank account. 
7. Remittances shall be only made to beneficiaries in jurisdictions which are FATF compliant. 
8. The remitting service provider shall be a duly licensed entity by regulator of destination jurisdictions to facilitate 
remittances to beneficiaries in such jurisdictions. 
9. The remitter’s moneys should be kept distinct from service provider’s operating account and such moneys should be 
duly protected from insolvency risks of the facilitating service provider.  The onus of ensuring the security of the 
remitters funds shall be on the Authorized Dealer (Category I) bank. 
10. The Authorized Dealer (Category I) bank may submit to the Reserve Bank every year a certificate stating that the 
conditions prescribed in the approval are adhered to.
