[Page 1]
1 
 
 
RBI/IDMD/2016-17/29             
Master Direction IDMD.PDRD.01/03.64.00/2016-17      July 1, 2016 
                                                                                           (Updated as on November 22, 2018) 
 
All Primary Dealers  
 
Dear Sir / Madam 
 
Master Direction – Operational Guidelines for Primary Dealers  
 
The Reserve Bank of India has, from time to time, is sued a number of guidelines/instructions to 
the Primary Dealers (PDs) with respect to their  operations. The Master Direction enclosed 
incorporates the updated guidelines/instructions/circulars on the subject.   A list of circulars 
finding reference in this Master Direction is enclosed in Annex-XIII and XIV. The Direction will 
be updated from time to time as and when fresh instructions are issued. This Master Direction 
has been placed on RBI website at www.rbi.org.in. 
2. The banks undertaking PD activities departmentally should follow the extant guidelines 
applicable to the banks on   capital adequacy requirements and risk management.  
 
Yours faithfully 
 
Sd/- 
(A. Mangalagiri) 
Chief General Manager 
 
 
Encl: As above

[Page 2]
Table of Contents 
Section I: Regulations governing Primary Dealers 
Sl.No. Details Page 
No. 
1 Primary Dealer (PD) System 1 
2 Primary Market Activities 4 
3 Secondary Market Activities 7 
4 Liquidity Standing Facility 8 
5 Investment Guidelines 9 
6 Systems/Controls 11 
7 Violation/Circumvention of Instructions 14 
8 Disclosure of Penal Actions 14 
9 Exit/Termination Procedure 14 
Section II: Additional Guidelines applicable to banks undertaking PD business  
departmentally 
Sl.No. Details Page 
No. 
1 Introduction 16 
2 Procedure for Authorization of bank-PDs 16 
3 Applicability of Guidelines issued for bank-PDs 16 
4 Maintenance of books and accounts 17 
5 Capital Adequacy and Risk Management 18 
6 Supervision by RBI 18 
Annexes 
Annex 
No. Details Page 
No. 
I Format of Undertaking 19 
II-A  Statements / Returns required to be submitted by PDs to IDMD 22 
II-B Statements / Returns required to be submitted by PDs to other than IDMD 23 
II- C Statements / Returns required to be submitted by banks on their PD 
business to IDMD 
24 
III Illustration showing the underwriting scheme 25 
IV Illustration showing PDs’ commitment to T-Bills/CMBs auctions and success 
ratio 
29 
V Format PDR–I Return 30 
VI Format PDR-II Return  32 
VII PDR III Return Format 37 
VIII Criteria for use of internal model to measure market risk    capital charge 48 
IX Back Testing 54 
X Format PDR-IV Return * 57 
XI Publication of Financial Results 61 
XII Monthly Return on Interest Rate Risk of Rupee Derivatives 62 
XIII List of circulars consolidated 63 
XIV List of circulars referred 68

[Page 3]
1 
Section I – Regulations governing Primary Dealers 
1. Primary Dealer System
1.1  Introduction 
In 1995, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) introduced the system of Primary Dealers (PDs) in the 
Government Securities (G-Sec) Market.  The objectives of the PD system are to strengthen the 
infrastructure in G-Sec market, development of underwriting and market making capabilities for 
G-Sec, improve secondary  market trading system and to make PDs an effective conduit for 
open market operations (OMO). As on June 30, 2015,  there are seven standalone PDs and  
fourteen banks authorized to undertake PD business departmentally.
1.2   Eligibility conditions 
1.2.1 The eligibility c riteria for an entity to appl y to the Reserv e Bank of India for under taking 
the activities of a PD are as under: 
Eligible Institutions Eligibility conditions 
a. Subsidiary of 
scheduled
c
ommercial
bank/s and All 
India Financial 
Institutions 
b. Subsidiaries/ joint
ventures set up in
India by entities
incorporated
abroad.
c. Company
incorporated
under the
Companies Ac t,
1956 and does
not fall under (a)
or (b).
• Should be registered as an NBFC under Section 45-IA of the
RBI Act, 1934 for at least one year prior to the submission of
application.
• Should have minimum net owned funds (NOF) 1 of Rs .150
crore for undertaking core activities and Rs.250 crore for
undertaking diversified activities (as defined in para 5).
Before commencing PD business, applicant entity has to
submit an external auditor’s certificate to this effect.
• Should have exposure in the securities business and i n
particular to the G -Sec market for at least one year prior to
the submission of application. Exposure for this purpos e
would be as under:
i. Applicant’s turnover in the G- Sec business
during the year preceding the year of applicatio n
for
 PD authorisation should be at least equal to
15 per cent of its total turnover.
ii. Its assets in G-Sec during the year preceding the
y
ear of application should be at least equal to 15
per cent of its total assets.
• Applicant entity should submit an annual target along with
plan of action for turnover to be achieved on behalf of mid-
segment (Provident Funds, Urban Cooperative banks,
Regional Rural banks, Trusts, etc.) and retail (individual)
investors at the time of submission of their application for PD
authorisation. The annual minimum target will be same as
applicable to existing PDs from time to time as mentioned in
par
a 1.2.6 of this circular . Previous experience in servicing
retail and mid - segment customers in G -Sec will be viewed
1 In terms of the explanatory note to Section 45- IA of Chapter III- B of the RBI Act, 1934, NOF is calculated as (a) the aggregate of 
the paid-up equity capital and free reserves as disclosed in the latest balance- sheet of the company after deducting there from – (i) 
accumulated balance of loss; (ii) deferred revenue expenditure; and (iii) other intangible assets; and (b) further reduced by  the 
amounts representing – (1) investments of such company in shares of – (i) its subsidiaries; (ii) companies in the same group; (iii) all 
other non-banking financial companies; and (2) the book value of debentures, bonds, outstanding loans and advances (including 
hire-purchase and lease finance) made to, and deposits with,– (i) subsidiaries of such company; and (ii) companies in the same 
group, to the extent such amount exceeds ten per cent of (a) above.

[Page 4]
favourably while processing the application for PD 
authorisation. 
• In case of subsidiaries/joint ventures set up by entities 
incorporated abroad, in addition to conditions given above, 
the following may be adhered to: 
i. The applicant should have a pproval of Foreign 
Investment Promotion Board. 
ii. The parent foreign company directly or through its 
subsidiaries should have been in PD business for 
three years or more in active markets.  
iii. Such entity should suitably ring fence its system 
from its parent and associates  
Banks which do not have 
a partly or wholly owned 
subsidiary undertaking 
PD business and 
intending to undertake 
PD business 
departmentally 
• Minimum net owned funds (NOF) of Rs. 1,000 crore. 
• Minimum Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) o f 
9 per cent. 
• Net non- performing assets of less than 3 per cent and a 
profit making record for last three years. 
• The applicant bank should have approval of Department of 
Banking Regulation, Central Office, Reserve Bank of India, 
Mumbai. 
• Applicant bank shou ld submit an annual target along with 
plan of action for turnover to be achieved on behalf of mid-
segment and retail investors at the time of submission of 
their application for PD authorisation. The annual minimum 
target will be same as applicable to exis ting PDs from time 
to time as mentioned in para 1.2 .6 of this circular. Previous 
experience in servicing mid-segment and retail customers in 
G-Secs will be viewed favourably while processing the 
application for PD authorisation.  
 
1.2.2 An applicant will not be  eligible for authorisation as  a PD if, within the last one year, it 
has been subject to litigation or regulatory action or investigation that the Reserve Bank 
considers material or otherwise relevant to the business of PD . In making such 
determination, RBI may consult with the appropriate regulators for their views.  
1.2.3 An entity satisfying the criteria stipulated above should submit its application to the Chief 
General Manager, Internal Debt Management Department (IDMD), RBI, Mumbai. The 
RBI will, if satisfied, grant ‘in principle approval’.  The applicant will, thereafter, submit an 
undertaking in respect of the terms and conditions agreed to as per the prescribed 
format given in Annex I. Based on the application and undertaking, an authorisation 
letter will be issued by RBI.  Continuation as a PD would depend on its compliance with 
the terms and conditions of authorisation.  
1.2.4 The decision to authorise PDs will be taken by RBI based on its perception of market 
needs, suitability of the applicant and the likely value addition to the system. 
1.2.5 The applicant entity may also have to adhere to other terms and conditions, as may be 
specified by RBI from time-to-time. 
1.2.6 Existing PDs should submit an annual target (in consultation with RBI) along with plan of 
action for tu rnover to be achieved on behalf of mid-segment and retail investors in the 
month of June every year. The annual target for July 2016-June 2017 should not be less

[Page 5]
than 150 per cent of minimum NOF for standalone PDs and 100 per cent of minimum 
NOF for bank PDs. The target will be reviewed annually.  
1.2.7  PDs are not permitted to set up step-down subsidiaries. 
 
1.3   Role and obligations of the PDs 
PDs are expected to play an active role in the G-Sec market, both in its primary and secondary 
market segments through various obligations like participating in Primary auction, market 
making in G -Secs, predominance of investment in G -Secs, achieving minimum secondary 
market turnover ratio, maintaining efficient internal control system for fair conduct of business 
etc. A PD is required to have a standing arrangement with RBI based on the execution of an 
undertaking (Annex I) and the authorization letter issued by RBI every three years. Undertaking 
will be based on passing of a fresh Board resolution by the PD every three years.  
 
1.4    Facilities from RBI 
The R BI currently extends the following facilities to the PDs to enable them to fulfill their 
obligations effectively:  
i. access to Current Account facility with RBI; 
ii. access to Subsidiary General Ledger (SGL) Account facility with RBI;  
iii. access to e-Kuber facility for primary auction; 
iv. permission to borrow and lend in the money market including call money market and to 
trade in all money market instruments; 
v. memberships of electronic dealing, trading and settlement systems (N DS 
platforms/INFINET/RTGS/CCIL); 
vi. access to the Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) of RBI; 
vii. access to liquidity support from RBI under a scheme separately notified for standalone 
PDs; and 
viii. access to OMO by RBI. 
 
The facilities are subject to review. 
 
1.5    Regulation and Supervision by RBI   
Operations of the PDs are subject to prudential and regulatory guidelines issued by RBI from 
time to time.  
1.5.1 Returns: As part of off-site supervision,  PDs are required to submit prescribed periodic 
returns to RBI as per Annex II–A & B. RBI may also prescribe any other return as it may deem 
necessary. 
1.5.2 On-Site Supervision: RBI will have the right to inspect the books, records, documents 
and accounts of a PD. PDs are required to make available all such documents, r ecords, etc. to 
the RBI officers and render all necessary assistance as and when required.

[Page 6]
1.5.4 In addition, PDs are required to meet registration and such other requirements as 
stipulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) including operations on the 
Stock Exchanges, if they undertake any activity regulated by SEBI. 
1.5.5 A PD should bring to the attention of RBI any major complaint against it or action 
initiated/taken against it by authorities such as the Stock Exchanges, SEBI, CBI, E nforcement 
Directorate, Income Tax Department, etc.  
1.5.6 PDs are expected to join Primary Dealers Association of India (PDAI) and Fixed Income 
Money Market and Derivatives Association (FIMMDA) and abide by the code of conduct framed 
by them and such other actions as initiated by them in the interest of the securities markets. 
 
2.  Primary Market Activities 
PDs are expected to support the primary issues of dated securities of Central Government and 
State Government, T-Bills and CMBs through underwriting/bi dding commitments. The related 
guidelines are as under: 
 
2.1 Underwriting of Dated G-Sec 
2.1.1 Dated securities of Central Government  
 
i. The underwriting commitment on dated securities of Central Government will be divided 
into two parts - a) Minimum Underwriting Com mitment (MUC), and b) Additional 
Competitive Underwriting (ACU).  
ii. The MUC of each PD will be computed to ensure that at least 50 percent of the notified 
amount of each issue is mandatorily underwritten equally by all the PDs. The share under 
MUC will be un iform for all PDs, irrespective of their capital or balance sheet size. The 
remaining portion of the notified amount will be underwritten through an ACU auction.  
iii. RBI will announce the MUC of each PD.  In the ACU auction, each PD would be required 
to bid for an amount at least equal to its share of MUC. A PD cannot bid for more than 30 
per cent of the notified amount in the ACU auction.  
iv. The auction could be either uniform price-based or multiple price-based depending upon 
the market conditions and other relevant factors, which will be announced before the 
underwriting auction for each issue.  
v. Bids will be tendered by the PDs within the stipulated time, indicating both the amount of 
the underwriting commitment and underwriting commission rates.  A PD can submit 
multiple bids for underwriting. Depending upon the bids submitted for underwriting, RBI will 
decide the cut-off rate of commission and inform the PDs. 
vi. Underwriting commission: All successful bidders in the ACU auction will be paid 
underwriting commission on the ACU segment as per the auction rules . Those PDs who 
succeed in the ACU for 4 per cent and above of the notified amount of the issue, will be 
paid commission on the MUC at the weighted average of all the accepted bids in the ACU.

[Page 7]
Others will get c ommission on the MUC at the weighted average rate of the three lowest 
accepted bids in the ACU. 
vii. In the GOI securities auction, a PD should bid for an amount not less than its total 
underwriting obligation. If two or more issues are floated on the same day, the minimum 
bid amount will be applied to each issue separately.  
viii. Underwriting commission will be paid on the amount accepted for underwriting by the RBI, 
irrespective of the actual amount of devolvement, by credit to the current account of the 
respective PDs at the RBI, Fort, Mumbai, on the date of issue of security.  
ix. In case of devolvement, PDs would be allowed to set-off the accepted bids in the auction 
against their shortfall in underwriting commitment accepted by the RBI. Devolvement of 
securities, if any, on PDs will take place on pro-rata basis, depending upon the amount of 
underwriting obligation of each PD after setting off the successful bids in the auction. 
x. RBI reserves the right to accept any amount of underwriting up to 100 per cent of the 
notified amount or even reject all the bids tendered by PDs for underwriting, without 
assigning any reason. 
xi. An illustration on underwriting procedure is given in Annex III.  
 
2.1.2 Dated securities of State Governments  
i. On announcement of an auction of State Development Loans (SDLs), which are dated 
securities of the State Governments, RBI may invite PDs to collectively bid to underwrite 
up to 100 per cent of the notified amount. 
ii. The auction could be either uniform price-based or multiple price-based depending upon 
the market conditions and other relevant factors, which will be announced before the 
underwriting auction for each issue.  
iii. A PD can bid to underwrite up to 30 per cent of the notified amount of the issue.  If two or 
more issues are floated on the same day, the limit of 30% is applied by taking the notified 
amounts separately.  
iv. Bids will be tendered by PDs within the stipulated time, indicating both the amount of the 
underwriting commitments and underwriting commission rates.  A PD can submit multiple 
bids for underwriting. 
v. Depending upon the bids submitted for underwriting, the RBI will decide the cut-off rate of 
commission and the underwriting amount up to which bids would be accepted and inform 
the PDs. 
vi. RBI reserves the right to accept any amount of underwr iting up to 100 per cent of the 
notified amount or even reject all the bids tendered by PDs for underwriting, without 
assigning any reason. 
vii. In case of devolvement, PDs would be allowed to set-off the accepted bids in the auction 
against their shortfall in underwriting commitment accepted by the RBI. Devolvement of

[Page 8]
securities, if any, on PDs will take place on pro-rata basis, depending upon the amount of 
underwriting obligation of each PD after setting off the successful bids in the auction.  
viii. Underwriting commission will be paid on the amount accepted for underwriting by the RBI, 
irrespective of the actual amount of devolvement, by credit to the current account of the 
respective PDs at the RBI, Fort, Mumbai, on the date of issue of security.  
 
2.2   Bidding in Primary auctions of T-Bills/CMBs 
i. Each PD will individually commit, at the beginning of the year (April – March), to submit 
bids for a fixed percentage of the notified amount of T-Bills/CMBs in each auction. 
ii. The minimum bidding commitment amount / percentage for each PD will be determined by 
the RBI, in consultation with the PD. While finalizing the bidding commitments, the RBI will 
take into account the NOF, the offer made by the PD, its track record and its past 
adherence to the prescribed success ratio. The amount/percentage of minimum bidding 
commitment so determined by the RBI will remain unchanged for the entire year or till 
execution of the undertaking for the next year.   
iii. In any auction of T-Bills/CMBs, if a PD fails to submit the required minimum bid or submits 
a bid lower than its commitment, the RBI may take appropriate penal action against the 
PD.  
iv. A PD would be required to achieve a minimum success ratio of 40 percent of bidding 
commitment  in T-Bills/CMBs auctions (if an auction gets cancelled or if all bids are 
rejected by RBI then PD should not take that auction’s notified amount in the calculation of 
success ratio. Also, if RBI accepts partial amount, PD should take only accepted amount 
for calculation purpose) which  will be monitored on a half yearly basis, i.e. April to 
September and October to March, separately (For illustrations please refer to Annex IV). 
v. The CMB transactions may be reported in PDR returns along with the T-Bill transactions. 
 
2.3    ‘When-Issued’ transactions in Central G-Sec 
PDs shall adhere to the guidelines issued by the RBI vide circular IDMD.No/3426/11.01.01 
(D)/2005-06 dated May 3, 2006 , as updated vide circulars IDMD.No/2130/11/01.01 (D)/2006-07 
dated November 16, 2006 , IDMD.DOD.No.3166/11/01.01(B)/2007-08 dated January 1, 2008  
and FMRD.DIRD.06/14.03.07/2015-16 dated December 10, 2015  for undertaking “When 
Issued” transactions. 
 
2.4    Submission of client bids in the primary auctions 
The PDs are allowed to submit bids of their SGL/Gilt account holders in the primary auctions as 
their own bids under competitive route after putting in place the following safeguards: 
i. PDs should have a Board approved policy including appropriate risk management 
system to take care of risks arising out of such activity 
ii. List of clients, details of business done through such clients and appropriateness of risk 
management system put in place may be periodically reviewed by the Board.

[Page 9]
iii. Records maintained in this regard should be subjected to concurrent audit. 
PDs may execute the secondary market sale transaction and report the same on NDS -OM (T+1 
settlement). With respect to the dated securities, the sale transaction may be made within one 
hour of intimation of firm allotment in the primary auctions. 
 
2.5 Submission of non-competitive bids  
PDs shall adhere to the guidelines issued vide circular RBI/2008- 09/479 - IDMD.No.5877/ 
08.02.33/2008-09 dated May 22, 2009 , as amended from time to time, in respect of submission 
of non-competitive bids in the auctions of the G-Sec. 
 
2.6 Sale of securities allotted in primary issues on the same day 
PDs shall adhere to the guidelines issued vide circulars IDMC.PDRS.No.PDS.1/03.64.00/ 2000-
01 dated October 6, 2000 , RBI/2005/461–IDMD.PDRS.4777/10.02.01/2004-05 dated May 11, 
2005 and RBI/2012-13/133-IDMD.PDRD.188/03.64.00/2012-13 dated July 16, 2012  for 
undertaking sale of securities allotted in primary issues on the same day. PDs can avail services 
of brokers for carrying out such sale contracts. 
 
2.7 Settlement of primary auctions 
The primary auction settlement is independent from the secondary market settlements and 
therefore has to be funded separately. Successful PDs shall provide sufficient funds in their 
current account with the RBI on the auction settlement days before 3:00 pm to meet their 
obligations against the subscriptions in the primary auctions failing which the shortage will be 
treated as an ins tance of ‘SGL bouncing’ and will be subjected to the applicable penal 
provisions.   
 
3. Secondary Market activities  
3.1 Market making in G-Sec: PDs should offer two-way prices in G-Sec through the Negotiated 
Dealing System -Order Matching (NDS -OM), over -the-counter (OTC) market and recognized 
Stock Exchanges in India and take principal positions in the secondary market for G-Sec. 
 
3.2 Turnover ratio:  A PD should annually achieve a minimum turnover ratio of 5 times for 
Government dated securities and 10 times for T-Bills/CMBs of the average month- end stocks. 
The turnover ratio in respect of outright transactions should not be less than 3 times in 
Government dated securities and 6 times in T- Bills/CMBs (Turnover ratio is the ratio of total 
purchase and sales during the year in the secondary market to average month-end stocks).  
  
3.3 Secondary Market Transactions - Short-selling 
PDs shall adhere to the guidelines issued by the RBI vide circular IDMD.No 
03/11.01.01(B)/2005-06 dated February 28, 2006 , RBI/2006-07/243- 
IDMD.No./11.01.01(B)/2006-07 dated January 31, 2007 , IDMD.DOD.No.3165 /11.01.01(B)/

[Page 10]
2007-08 dated January 2008, IDMD.PCD. 14 /14.03.07/2011-12 dated December 28, 2011 , 
RBI/2011-12/615IDMD.PCD.No.21/14.03.07/2011-12 dated June 21, 2012 , 
IDMD.PCD.06/14.03.07/2014-15 dated September  30, 2014,  FMRD.DIRD.02/14.03.007/2014-
15 dated December 24, 2014 and FMRD.DIRD.5/14.03.007/2015-16 dated October 29, 2015 on 
“Secondary market transactions in Government Securities - Short Selling” as amended from 
time to time.  
 
3.4 Separate Trading of Registered Interest and Principal of Securities (STRIPS) in G-Sec 
PDs shall adhere to the guidelines issued by the RBI vide circular RBI/2009-10/360-
IDMD.DOD.No.7/11.01.09 /2009-10 dated March 25, 2010 , on STRIPS in G -Sec, as amended 
from time to time. 
 
3.5 Settlement of Secondary Market transaction 
As per circular IDMD.PDRS./4783/10.02.01/2004-05 dated May 11, 2005  all outright secondary 
market transactions in Government Securities are settl ed on T+1 basis except for outright 
secondary market transactions undertaken with respect to FPIs and reported on NDS -OM, 
which will be settled on T+2 basis subject to conditions mentioned in circular 
FMRD.DIRD.06/14.03.007/2014-15 dated March 20, 2015, as amended from time to time.  
 
4 Liquidity Support from RBI 
In addition to access to the RBI's LAF, standalone PDs are also provided with liquidity support 
by the RBI against el igible G -Sec including SDLs. The parameters based on which liquidity 
support will be allocated are given below: 
i. Of the total liquidity support, half of the amount will be divided equally among all the 
standalone PDs. The remaining half (i.e. 50%) will be d ivided in the ratio of 1:1 based on 
market performance in primary market and secondary market. Performance in primary 
market will be computed on the basis of bids accepted in the T-Bill/CMB auctions and G -
Sec auctions in the proportionate weights of 1 and 3. Similarly, the secondary market 
performance will be judged on the basis of outright turnover in T-Bills/CMBs and G -Sec in 
the proportionate weights of 1 and 3. 
ii. The PD-wise limit of liquidity support will be revised every half-year (April -September and 
October-March) based on the market performance of the PDs in the preceding six months.  
iii. The liquidity support will be made available at the ‘Repo Rate’ announced by the RBI. 
iv. The liquidity support availed by a PD will be repayable within a period of 90 days. If it is 
repaid after 90 days, the penal rate of interest payable by PDs is Bank rate plus 5 
percentage points for the period beyond 90 days. 
 
5.      Investment Guidelines 
5.1 Investment policy - PDs should frame and implement, a Board approved, investment policy 
and operational guidelines on securities transactions.  The policy should contain the broad

[Page 11]
objectives to be followed while undertaking transactions in securities on their own account and 
on behalf of clients, clearly define the authority to put through deals, and lay down procedure to 
be followed while putting through deals, various prudential exposure limits, policy regarding 
dealings through brokers, systems for management of various risks, guidelines for valuation of 
the portfolio and the reporting systems etc. Operational procedures and controls in relation to 
the day-to-day business operations should also be worked out and put in place to ensure that 
operations in securities are conducted in accordance with sound and acceptable business 
practices. While laying down these guidelines, the PDs should strictly adhere to RBI’s 
instructions, issued from time to time. The effectiveness of the policy and operational guidelines 
should be periodically evaluated. 
 
5.2 The investment in G-Sec should have predominance over the non-core activities in terms of 
investment pattern. Standalone PDs are required to ensure predominance by maintaining at 
least 50 per cent of their total financial investments (both long term and short term) in G -Sec at 
any point of time. Investment in G -Sec will include the PD’s Own Stock, Stock with RBI under 
Liquidity Support / Intra- day Liquidity (IDL)/ LAF, Stock with market for repo borrowings and G -
Sec pledged with the CCIL.  
5.3 Further, a PD’s investment in G-Sec (including T-Bills and CMBs) and Corporate Bond (to 
the extent of 50% of NOF) on a daily basis should be at least equal to its net call/notice/repo 
(including CBLO) borrowing plus net RBI borrowing (through LAF/ Intra-Day Liquidity/ Liquidity 
Support) plus the minimum prescribed NOF. 
 
5.4 PDs should necessarily hold their investments in G-Sec portfolio in SGL with RBI. They may 
also have a dematerialised (Demat) account with depositories –  National Securities Depository 
Limited / Central Depository Services (India) Limi ted. All purchase/sale transactions in G -Secs 
by PDs should be through SGL / Constituent SGL (CSGL) / Demat accounts. 
 
5.5 PDs should hold all other investments such as CPs, bonds and debentures (privately placed 
or otherwise) and equity instruments, only in demat form.  
 
5.6 All problem exposures, which are not backed by any security or backed by security of 
doubtful value, should be fully provided for.  Where a PD has filed suit against another party for 
recovery, such exposures should be evaluated and pr ovisions made to the satisfaction of 
auditors. Any claim against the PD should also be taken note of and provisions made to the 
satisfaction of auditors. 
 
5.7 The profit and loss account should reflect the problem exposures if any, and also the effect 
of valuation of portfolio, as per the instructions issued by the RBI, from time to time. The report 
of the statutory auditors should contain a certification to this effect.

[Page 12]
5.8 HTM Portfolio 
5.8.1 Standalone PDs are allowed to categorize a portion of their G -Sec portfolio in the HTM 
category, subject to the following conditions: 
i. The transfer of securities (both Central Government and State Government) to/from HTM 
portfolio shall be done as per the policy formulated by the Board. Such transfers shall be 
permitted only once in a quarter. 
ii. Transfer of securities to/from HTM portfolio should be done with the approval of the Board 
at the acquisition cost/ book value/ market value on the date of transfer, whichever is the 
least, and the depreciation, if any, on such transfer shall be fully provided for. PDs are 
allowed to shift investments to/from HTM portfolio with the approval of the MD of the 
PD/Head of ALCO, only in case of exigencies. However, it should be ratified by the Board. 
iii. Only securities acquired by the PD under primary auction will be eligible for classification 
under HTM category. 
iv. The quantum of securities that can be classified as HTM shall be restricted to 1 00% of the 
audited NOF of the PD as at the end March of the preceding financial year.   
v. The profit on sale of securities, if any, from the HTM category shall first be taken to the P & 
L Account and thereafter be appropriated to the “Reserve Account”; loss on sale shall be 
recognized in the P & L Account.  
vi. Investments classified under HTM will be carried at acquisition cost, unless it is more than 
the face value, in which case the premium should be amortized over the remaining period 
to maturity. The book value of the security should continue to be reduced to the extent of 
the amount amortized during the relevant accounting period. 
vii. The concurrent auditors should specifically verify compliance with these instructions. 
viii. The facility shall be available until further advice. 
 
5.8.2 Banks undertaking PD activities departmentally may continue to follow the extan t 
guidelines applicable to banks with regard to the classification and valuation of the investment 
portfolio issued by Department of Banking Regulation (DBR), RBI. 
 
6 Systems/Controls 
6.1 PDs shall have an efficient internal control system for fair conduct  of business, settlement of 
trades and maintenance of accounts. 
i. PDs should maintain adequate physical infrastructure and skilled manpower for efficient 
participation in primary issues, trading in the secondary market, and to advise and 
educate investors.  
ii. In respect of transactions in G -Sec, a PD should have a separate desk and maintain 
separate accounts in respect of its own position and customer transactions and subject 
them to external audit also.

[Page 13]
iii. All the transactions put through by the PD either on outright basis or ready forward basis 
should be reflected on the same day in its books and records i.e. preparation of deal slip, 
contract note, confirmation of the counter party, recording of the transaction in the 
purchase/sale registers, etc. 
iv. For every transaction entered into, the trading desk should generate a deal slip which 
should contain data relating to nature of the deal, name of the counterparty, whether it is 
a direct deal or through a broker, and if through a broker, name of the broker, details of 
security, amount, price, contract date and time and settlement date.  The deal slips 
should be serially numbered and controlled separately to ensure that each deal slip has 
been properly accounted for.  Once the deal is concluded, the deal slip should be 
immediately passed on to the back office for recording and processing.  For each deal, 
there must be a system of issue of confirmation to the counter -party. In view of the 
reporting and confirmation of OTC trades on Negotiated Dealing System (NDS) and 
guaranteed settlement through CCIL, the requirement to exchange written confirmation 
for OTC trades in G-Sec has been dispensed with. With respect to transactions matched 
on the NDS-OM module, separate counterparty confirmation of deals is not required. 
v. Once a deal has been concluded, there should not be any substitution of the counter -
party by the broker. Similarly, the security sold/purchased in a deal should not be 
substituted by another security under any circumstances. 
vi. On the basis of vouchers passed by the back office (which should be done after 
verification of actual contract notes received from the broker/counter -party and 
confirmation of the deal by the counter party), the books of account should be 
independently prepared. 
vii. PDs should periodically review  securities transactions and report to the top 
management, the details of transactions in securities, details of funds/securities delivery 
failures, even in cases where shortages have been met by CCIL. 
viii. All security transactions (including transactions on account of clients) should be 
subjected to concurrent audit by internal/external auditors to the extent of 100% and the 
results of the audit should be placed before the CEO/MD of the PD once every month. 
The compliance should be monitored on ongoing basis and reported directly to the top 
management. The concurrent audit should also cover the business done through 
brokers and include the findings in their report.  
ix. The scope of concurrent audit should include monitoring of broker wise limits, prudential 
limits laid down by RBI, accuracy and timely submission of all regulatory returns, 
reconciliation of SGL/CSGL balances with PDO statements, reconciliation of current 
account balance with DAD statements, settlements through CCIL, stipulations with 
respect to shor t sale deals, when-issued transactions, constituent deals, money market 
deals, adherence to accounting standards, verification of deal slips, reasons for

[Page 14]
cancellation of deals, if any, transactions with related parties on ‘arm’s length basis’, 
provisions related to HTM portfolio etc.  
x. PDs should have a system of internal audit focused on monitoring the efficacy and 
adequacy of internal control systems.  
xi. With the approval of their Board, PDs should put in place appropriate exposure limits / 
dealing limits, for each of their counterparties which cover all dealings with such counter 
parties including money market, repos and outright securities transactions. These limits 
should be reviewed periodically on the basis of financial statements, market reports, 
ratings, etc. and exposures taken only on a fully collateralized basis where there is 
slippage in the rating/assessment of any counterparty.   
xii. With the approval of their Boards, PDs should put in place reasonable leverage ratio for 
their operations, which should take into account all outside borrowings as a multiplier of 
their NOF.  
xiii. There should be a clear functional separation of (i) trading (front office); (ii) risk 
management (mid office); and (iii) settlement, accounting and reconciliation (back office).  
Similarly, there should be a separation of transactions relating to own account and 
constituents’ accounts.   
xiv. PDs should have an Audit Committee of the Board (ACB) which should meet at least at 
quarterly intervals. The ACB should peruse the findings of the various audits and should 
ensure efficacy and adequacy of the audit function.  
 
6.2 Purchase/Sale of securities through SGL transfer forms 
All PDs should report / conclude their transactions on NDS / NDS -OM and clear/settle them 
through CCIL as central counter -party. In such cases where exceptions have been permitted to 
tender physical SGL transfer forms, the following guidelines should be followed: 
 
i. Records of all SGL transfer forms issued/received should be maintained and a system for 
verification of the authenticity of the SGL transfer forms received from the counter -party 
and confirmation of authorized signatories should be put in place. 
ii. Under no circumstances, a SGL transfer form issued by a PD in favour of counterparty 
should bounce for want of sufficient balance in the SGL/Current Account. Any instance of 
return of SGL form from the Public Debt Office (PDO) of the RBI for want of sufficient 
balance in the account should be immediately brought to the notice of the PD’s top 
management and reported to RBI with the details of transactions. 
iii. SGL Transfer forms received by purchasing PDs should be deposited in their SGL 
Accounts immediately. No sale should be effected by way of return of SGL form held by 
the PD.

[Page 15]
iv. SGL transfer form should be in a standard format,  prescribed by the RBI , and printed on 
semi-security paper of uniform size. They should be serially numbered and there should 
be a control system in place to account for each SGL form.  
 
6.3    Bank Receipt or similar receipt should not be issued or accepted by the PDs under any 
circumstances in respect of transactions in G-Sec.  
 
6.4 Reconciliation of holdings of G-Sec 
Balances as per books of PDs should be reconciled at least at monthly intervals with the 
balances in the books of PDOs. If the number of tr ansactions so warrant, the reconciliation 
should be undertaken at more frequent intervals.  This reconciliation should be periodically 
verified during concurrent/internal audit of the PDs. 
 
6.5 Transactions on behalf of Constituents 
i. The PDs should undertak e all due diligence while acting as agent of their clients for 
carrying out transactions in securities. 
ii. PDs should not use the constituents’ funds or assets for proprietary trading or for financing 
of another intermediary’s operations. 
iii. All transaction records should give a clear indication that the transaction belongs to 
constituent and does not belong to PD’s own account. 
iv. The transactions on behalf of constituents and the operations in the CSGL  accounts 
should be conducted in accordance with the guidelines  issued by RBI on the CSGL 
accounts. 
v. PDs who act as custodians (i.e. CSGL account holders) and offer the facility of maintaining 
gilt accounts to their constituents, should not permit settlement of any sale transaction by 
their constituents unless the security sold is actually held in the gilt account of the 
constituent.   
vi. Indirect access to NDS -OM has been permitted to certain segments of investors  through 
banks and PDs vide circular IDMD.DOD.No.5893/10.25.66/2007-08 dated May 27, 2008 . 
PDs should adhere to the guidelines on maintenance of gilt accounts and investments on 
behalf of gilt account holders while undertaking 'constituent deals' on NDS-OM. 
 
6.6   Failure to complete delivery of security/funds in an SGL transaction  
Any default in delivery of security/funds in an SGL sale /purchase transaction undertaken by a 
PD will be viewed seriously. A report on such transaction, even if completed through the 
securities/funds shortage handling procedure of CCIL, must be submitted to the IDMD, RBI 
immediately. In terms of circular RBI/2010-11/115-IDMD.DOD.17/11.01.01(B)/2010-11 dated 
July 14, 2010, for any default in delivery of security / funds in a SGL sale / purchase transaction 
undertaken by a PD (event of bouncing of SGL transfer forms ) and the failure of the PD to offer

[Page 16]
satisfactory explanation for such bouncing of SGL, the PD shall be liable to pay penalties as per 
the circular ibid. 
 
7.  Violation/Circumvention of Instructions  
Any violation/circumvention of the above guidelines or the terms and conditions of the 
undertaking executed by a PD with RBI (Annex I) would be viewed seriously and such violation 
would attract penal action including the withdrawal of liquidity support, denial of access to the 
money market, withdrawal of authorization for carrying on the business as a PD, and/or 
imposition of monetary penalty or liquidated damages, as the RBI may deem fit. 
 
8.  Disclosure of Penal Actions  
8.1 In order to maintain transparency with regard to imposition of penalties and in conformity 
with the best practices o n disclosure of penalties imposed by the regulator, the details of the 
penalty levied on a PD shall be placed in the public domain.  
 
8.2 The mode of disclosures of penalties, imposed by RBI will be as follows: 
 
i. A Press Release will be issued by the RBI, giving details of the circumstances under which 
the penalty is imposed on the PD along with the communication on the imposition of 
penalty in public domain. 
ii. The penalty shall also be disclosed in the 'Notes on Accounts' to the Balance Sheet of the 
PD in its next Annual Report. 
 
9. Exit / Termination procedure: 
9.1 RBI may suspend or terminate a PD, as it may deem fit, in the following circumstances: 
i. Violation/circumvention of the regulatory guidelines or the terms and conditions of the 
undertaking executed by a PD with the RBI. 
ii. Failure to meet the performance criteria and capital standards on an ongoing basis. 
iii. Repeatedly providing bids and offers in the primary and/or secondary market that are not 
reasonably competitive. 
iv. RBI is of the view that the PD has attempted to manipulate the market; involved in market 
abuse; made an incorrect repr esentation or certification; failed to provide information 
required under the extant guidelines, or provided information that was incorrect, 
inaccurate, or incomplete. 
v. If it appears, in the Reserve Bank’s judgment that the PD has an inadequate or weak 
control environment. 
vi. If a PD becomes the subject of, or involved with, regulatory or legal proceedings that, in 
the judgment of the Reserve Bank, unfavorably impacts the PD business. 
vii. PD intends to surrender PD authorisation on its own. In such a case, the PD s hould 
discuss the orderly unwinding of any positions held, agree the timing and date of

[Page 17]
termination of PD operations, and the content of any announcements to be made to the 
market, by the Reserve Bank. In the interests of discouraging ‘fair -weather’ trading and 
ensure that a PD is available in the market even when the market condition is not 
favourable, the Reserve Bank will not approve an application from the same firm for a 
fresh PD authorisation for some considerable period of time. 
 
9.2 RBI will notify the PD of its intention to impose a sanction, and will provide the PD with 
an opportunity to submit its view, before taking a final decision. 
 
9.3 RBI will ensure that a PD’s exit is carried out in a way that does not cause undue 
disruptions to other market participants. 
 
9.4 Such suspension or termination will be made public by RBI through press release.  An 
announcement in this regard shall be made preferably on the last working day of the week, with 
the sanction effective from the close of business on the same day. 
 
10. List of circulars consolidated and list of circulars referred are enclosed at Annex X and XI 
respectively.

[Page 18]
Section II: Additional Guidelines applicable to banks undertaking  
PD business departmentally 
 
1.  Introduction 
Scheduled commercial banks (except Regional Rural B anks) have been permitted to undertake 
PD business departmentally from 2006-07.  
 
2.  Procedure for Authorization of bank-PDs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
2.1 Banks eligible to apply for undertaking PD  business, [please see eligibil ity conditions at 
paragraph 1.2.1 of Section I above] may approach the Chief General Manager, IDMD, RBI, 23rd 
Floor, Central Office Building, Fort, Mumbai  -   400 001 for an authorization for undertaking PD 
business departmentally.  
 
2.2 The banks, proposi ng to undertake the PD business by merging / taking over PD business 
from their partly / wholly owned subsidiary, or foreign banks, operating in India, proposing to 
undertake PD business departmentally by merging the PD business being undertaken by a 
group company, will be subject to the terms and conditions, as applicable, of the undertaking 
given by such subsidiary/ group company till such time a fresh undertaking is executed by the 
bank. 
 
2.3 The banks authorized to undertake PD business will be required to have a standing 
arrangement with RBI based on the execution of an undertaking (Annex I) and the authorization 
letter issued by RBI every three years (July-June). Undertaking will be based on passing of a 
fresh Board resolution by the PD every three years. 
 
3.  Applicability of guidelines issued for PDs 
 
3.1 The bank -PDs would be governed by the operational guidelines as given in Section –  I 
above, to the extent applicable, unless otherwise stated. Furthermore, the bank -PDs' role and 
obligations in terms  of supporting the primary market auctions for issue of dated G -Sec and T-
Bills/CMBs, underwriting of d ated G-Sec, market-making in G -Sec and secondary market 
turnover in G-Sec will also be at par with those applicable to standalone PDs as enumerated in 
Section - I of this Master Direction.  
 
3.2 Bank-PDs are expected to join PDAI and FIMMDA and abide by the code of conduct framed 
by them and such other actions initiated by them in the interest of the securities market. 
 
3.3 The requirement of ensuring mini mum investment in G -Sec and T-Bills on a daily basis , 
based on net call  / RBI borrowing and NOF will not be applicable to bank -PDs wh o shall be 
guided by the extant guidelines applicable to banks.

[Page 19]
3.4 As banks have access to the call money market, refinance facility and the LAF of RBI, bank -
PDs will not have separate access to these facilities and liquidity support as applicable to the 
standalone PDs.  
 
3.5 The guidelines issued vide circular IDMD.No/3426/11.01.01 (D)/2005-06 dated May 3, 2006, 
as updated vide circulars IDMD.No/2130/11/01.01 (D)/2006-07 dated November 16, 2006 , 
IDMD.DOD.No.3166/11/01.01(B)/2007-08 dated January 1, 2008  and 
FMRD.DIRD.06/14.03.07/2015-16 dated December 10, 2015 on ’When-issued’ trades will be 
applicable to bank-PDs also.  
 
3.6 Bank-PDs shall be guided by the extant guidelines applicable to banks as regards borrowing 
in call/notice/term money market, ICDs , FCNR (B) loans /External Commercial Borrowings and 
other sources of funds. 
 
3.7 The investment policy of the bank may be suitably amended to include PD activities also. 
Within the overall framework of the investment policy, the PD business undertaken by the bank 
will be limited to dealing, underwriting and market-making in G-Sec. Investments in Corporate / 
PSU / FIs bonds, C Ps, CDs, debt mutual funds and other fixed income securities will not be 
deemed to be a part of PD business.  
 
3.8 The classification, valuation and operation of investment portfolio guidelines  as applicable to 
banks in regard to "Held for Trading" portfolio will also apply to the portfolio of G -Sec including 
T-Bills/CMBs earmarked for PD business.  
 
3.9 The G-Sec including T-Bills/CMBs under PD business will count for SLR purpose. 
 
3.10 Bank-PDs shall be guided by the extant guidelines applicable to banks as regards 
business through brokers, repo transactions, interest rate derivatives (OTC & exchange traded), 
investment in non-G-Sec, Issue of Subordinated Debt Instruments and declaration of dividend.  
 
4.  Maintenance of books and accounts 
4.1 The transactions related to PD  business, undertaken by a bank departmentally, should be 
executed through the existing SGL account of the bank. However, Bank-PDs need to maintain 
distinct PD  book as per DB R guidelines RBI/2006-07/104 DBOD.FSD.BC. 
No.25/24.92.001/2006-07 dated August 9, 2006. The  decision regarding maintaining a PD book 
as part of HFT-G -Sec portfolio or treating the entire HFT-G -Sec- portfolio as PD book is left to 
the banks. However, banks may clearly indicate in their investment policy the intention of 
denoting the whole or part of HFT-G -Sec book as PD book with the approval of their 
Board/ALCO.

[Page 20]
4.2 Bank-PDs shall decide about classification (HTM/AFS/HFT-G -Sec-bank/HFT-G-Sec-PD) of 
securities allotted in the primary auction/purchased in the secondary market, at the time of 
acquisition of the securities. 
4.3 It should be ensured that, at any point of time, there is a minimum balance of Rs.100 crore 
of G-Sec earmarked for PD business.  
4.4 Bank-PDs should subject 100 per cent of the transactions and regulatory returns submitted 
by PD department to concurrent audit. An auditor ’s certificate for having maintained the 
minimum stipulated balance of Rs.100 crore of G -Sec in the PD-book on an ongoing basis and 
having adhered to the guidelines/instructions issued by RBI  should be forwarded to IDMD, RBI 
on a quarterly basis. 
 
5.   Capital Adequacy and Risk Management 
5.1 The capital adequacy and risk management guidelines applicable to a bank undertaking PD 
activity departmentally, will be as per the extant guidelines applicable to banks. In other words, 
for the purpose of assessing the bank's capital adequacy requirement and coverage under risk 
management framework, the PD activity should also be taken into account. 
 
5.2 The bank undertaking PD activity may put in place adequate risk management systems to 
measure and provide for the risks emanating from the PD activity.  
 
6.    Supervision by RBI   
6.1 The banks authorized to undertake PD business departmentally are required to submit 
prescribed periodic returns to RBI promptly. The current list of such returns and their periodicity, 
etc. is furnished in Annex II- C. 
 
6.2 Reserve Bank reserves its right to amend or modify the above guidelines from time to time, 
as may be considered necessary. 
 
 
 
 
******************

[Page 21]
Annex I 
 
Format of Undertaking 
To 
The Chief General Manager, 
Internal Debt Management Department, 
Reserve Bank of India, 
Central Office Building, 
Mumbai - 400 001 
 
By     
             ………………………………………………………………..  
             Registered Office ……………………………………………..  
             …………………………………………………………………  
             ………………………………………………………………….  
 
WHEREAS the Reserve Ba nk of India (RBI) has offered in principle to permit us to undertake 
Primary Dealer (PD) activity in Government securities in accordance with the Guidelines issued 
thereon from time to time. 
 
AND WHEREAS as a precondition to our being authorized to undertake PD activity we are 
required to furnish an undertaking covering the relative terms and conditions. 
 
AND WHEREAS at the duly convened Board of Directors meeting of ________________ on 
__________, the Board has authorised Shri/Smt./Kum. _________________ and 
Shri/Smt./Kum. __________________ to execute and furnish an UNDERTAKING for the period 
July ….. to June ……. to the RBI jointly and severally as set out below: 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the RBI agreeing to permit us to undertake PD activity, 
we hereby undertake and agree: 
 
1. To commit to aggregatively bid in the auction of Treasury Bills (TBs), including Cash 
Management Bills (CMBs) to the extent of specific  per cent of each issue of auction 
Treasury Bills/Cash Management Bills as decided every y ear (April -March) and for a 
minimum amount equal to the underwriting commitment (allotted under Minimum 
Underwriting Commitment and Additional Competitive Underwriting) for GoI Dated Securities 
and to maintain the success ratio in aggregate winning bids at not less than 40 per cent for 
TBs and CMBs or such other percent as may be notified by RBI keeping in view the relevant 
factors. 
 
2. To offer to underwrite primary issues of GoI dated securities, TBs, CMBs, and State 
Government securities, for which auction is held, and accept devolvement, if any, of any 
amount as may be determined by RBI in terms of prevalent scheme for 
Bidding/Underwriting.  
 
3. a) To determine prudential ceilings, with the prior approval of the Board of Directors (Board) 
of the company, for r eliance on borrowings from the money market including repos, as a 
multiple of net owned funds, subject to the guidelines, if any, issued by the RBI in this regard 
(applicable to standalone PDs only). 
 
b)  To adhere to prudential ceilings, with the prior approval of the Board of the bank, subject 
to the guidelines, if any, issued by the RBI in this regard  (applicable to bank-PDs only). 
 
4. To offer firm two-way quotes through NDS / NDS -OM, over the counter telephone market / 
recognised Stock Exchanges in India and deal in the secondary market in Government 
dated securities and TBs of varying maturity from time to time and take principal positions.

[Page 22]
5. To achieve a sizeable portfolio in Government securities and to actively trade in the 
Government securities market. 
 
6. To achieve an annual turnover of not less than 5 times in Government dated securities and 
not less than 10 times in TBs/CMBs of the average of month-end stocks ( in the book 
separately maintained for the PD business)  subject to the turnover in respect of  outright 
transactions being not less than 3 times in Government dated securities and 6 times in TBs 
/CMBs or as may be notified by RBI from time to time. 
 
7. To maintain the capital adequacy standards prescribed by the RBI, and to subject ourselves 
to all prudential and regulatory guidelines as may be issued by the RBI from time to time. 
 
8. To maintain adequate infrastructure in terms of both physical apparatus and skilled 
manpower for efficient participation in primary issues, trading in the secondary market, and 
for providing advice and education to investors. 
 
9. To adhere to “Guidelines on Securities Transaction to be followed by PDs” issued vide 
circular IDMC.No.PDRS/2049-A/03.64.00/99-2000 dated December 31, 1999  and Master 
Direction issued from time to time and put in place necessary internal control systems for fair 
conduct of business and settlement of trades and maintenance of accounts.  
 
10. To comply with all applicable RBI /Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
requirements under the existing guidelines and which may be laid down from time to time in 
this behalf, failing which RBI would be at liberty to cancel the authorisation as a PD. 
 
11. To abide by the code of conduct as laid down by RBI/SEBI, the Primary Dealers’ 
Association of India (PDAI) and the Fixed Income, Money Markets and Derivatives 
Association of India (FIMMDA). 
 
12. To maintain separate books of account for transactions relating to PD business (distinct from 
the normal banking business) with necessary audit trails and to ensure that, at any point of 
time, there is a minimum balance of Rs.100 crore of Government securities or as may be 
notified by RBI from time to time earmarked for PD business (applicable to bank-PDs only). 
 
13. To maintain and preserve such information, records, books and documents pertaining to our 
working as a PD as may be specified by the RBI from time to time. 
 
14. To permit the RBI to inspect all records, books, information, documents and make availabl e 
the records to the officers deputed by the RBI for inspection/scrutiny and render all 
necessary assistance. 
 
15. To maintain at all times a minimum net owned funds of Rs.150 crore / Rs.250 crore or as 
may be prescribed by RBI from time to time in Government securities and to deploy the 
liquidity support from the RBI, net borrowings from call money market and net repo 
borrowings exclusively in Government securities   (applicable to standalone PDs only). 
 
16. To maintain an arm’s length relationship in transactions with group and related entities.  
 
17.  To obtain prior approval of RBI for any change in the shareholding pattern of the company 
(applicable to standalone PDs only). 
 
18. To submit in prescribed formats periodic reports including daily transactions and market 
information, monthly report of details of transactions in securities and risk position and 
performance with regard to participation in auctions, annual audited accounts and an annual 
performance review and such statements, certificates and other documents and information 
as may be specified by RBI from time to time.

[Page 23]
19. To report the matter immediately to Internal Debt Management Department  of the RBI and 
abide by such orders, instructions, decisions or rulings given by the RBI if and when any 
kind of investigation/inquiry/inspection is initiated against us by statutory/regulatory 
authorities, e.g. SEBI/RBI, Stock Exchanges, Enforcement Directorate, Income-tax 
authorities etc. 
 
20. To pay an amount of Rupees Five Lakh, or as applicable, to the RBI, for violation of any of 
the instructions issued by the RBI in the matter or for non-compliance with any of the 
undertakings given hereinabove. 
 
 
We do hereby confirm that the above undertakings will be binding on our successors and 
assigns. 
 
Dated this          day of                     Two Thousand ………….. 
 
Signed, sealed and delivered by the within named, ) 
being the authorized persons, in terms of the    ) 
Resolution No._______ of the Board ) 
at the duly convened Meeting held on___________ )      
in the in the presence of _______________  )           
 
Signatory         (i) 
                     (ii)  
 
Witness         (i) 
     (ii) 
Notes:     
1. Para 3.a, 15 and 17 are applicable to standalone PDs only. 
2. Para 3.b, words in italics in para 6 and para 12 are applicable to bank-PDs only.

[Page 24]
Annex II-A 
 
Statements / Returns required to be submitted by PDs to IDMD 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Return/Report Periodicity Last date for submission Reference 
under which 
required 
1.  PDR-I* (Sources and 
application of funds 
maintained on daily basis) 
Fortnightly Next working day of the 
reporting fortnight. 
PD Guidelines 
2.  PDR-II* (Securities market 
turnover on monthly basis) 
Monthly 10th of the following 
month. 
3.  PDR-III* (Statement on 
capital adequacy) 
Quarterly 15th of the month following 
the reporting  
4.  PDR IV* (Financial and 
balance sheet indicators) 
  Quarterly 15th of the month following 
the reporting quarter. 
5.  Return on FRAs / IRS* Monthly 10th of the following 
month. 
6.  Annual Report & Annual 
Audited A/cs 
Annual As soon as annual 
accounts are audited and 
finalized. 
7.  Auditor's Certificate on Net 
Owned Funds 
Yearly 30th June. 
8.  Details of dividend declared 
during the accounting year 
  Yearly Within a fortnight from the 
payment of dividend. 
 
* Returns to be submitted on XBRL online platform

[Page 25]
Annex II-B 
 
Statements / Returns required to be submitted by PDs  
to departments other than IDMD of Reserve Bank of India 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Return/Report Periodicity To be 
filed with 
Dept. 
Reference under which 
required 
1.  Return on FRAs / IRS  Fortnightly MPD MPD.BC.187/07.01.279/199
9-2000 dated July 7, 1999. 
2.  Statement showing balances of 
Govt. Securities held on behalf 
of each Gilt A/c holder 
Half-Yearly PDO 
 
3.  Return on Call Money 
transactions with Commercial 
Banks 
Fortnightly DEPR 
 
4.  Information for Issue of 
Commercial Paper 
On each  
issue of CP 
MPD IECD.2/08.15.01/2001-02 
dated July 23, 2001. 
 
Note: The last date prescribed for submission of these statements by the departments 
concerned and/or IDMD should be adhered to.

[Page 26]
Annex II-C 
 
Statements / Returns required to be submitted by banks  
on their Primary Dealership business to IDMD 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Return/Report Periodicity Last date for submission 
1. PDR-II (format enclosed as Annex 
VI) * Monthly 10th of the following month. 
2. Concurrent auditor certificate for 
having maintained the minimum 
stipulated balance of Rs. 100 crore 
of G-Sec in the PD -book on an 
ongoing basis. 
Quarterly 15th of the month following 
the reporting quarter. 
3. Annual Report on PD activity of the 
bank. Annual 
Within 30 days of the 
finalization of audited 
accounts. 
* Returns to be submitted on XBRL online platform

[Page 27]
Annex III 
 
Illustration showing the underwriting amount, cut-off of fee quoted and commission 
payable to PDs 
     
  
Instrument Name XXXXXXXX 
Auction Type Multiple 
Notified amount (NA)  4200 
Total No. of PDs (n) 21 
Minimum Underwriting Commitment  (MUC)  2100 
Per PD MUC (MUC/n) 100 
Total PD commitment under MUC collectively (Adjusted MUC)  2100 
Additional Competitive Underwriting (ACU)  
ACU = (NA - Adjusted MUC) 2100 
Minimum bidding by each PD in ACU   
(equal to per PD MUC) 100 
Total underwriting commitment for each PD under MUC and ACU 200 
Total Underwriting  ( 212 *19) 4200 
Minimum allotment to a PD to be eligible for higher commission on MUC i.e. 
min 4% of Notified Amount 168

[Page 28]
………………….  Annex III 
Bids submitted under Additional Competitive Underwriting Auction 
Sr. 
No 
PDs 
participated 
in U/W 
auction 
Amount 
of bid 
in ACU 
(Rs. 
Crore) 
Cumulative 
Amount      
(Rs. Cr) 
Underwriting 
fee (in paise / 
Rs.100) 
Amount 
of bid * 
U/w fee 
Remarks 
Weighted 
Average 
underwriting 
fee (paise / 
Rs.100) 
1 A 150 150 1.52 228.00   1.52 
2 B 155 305 2.56 396.80   2.05 
3 A 60 365 3.50 210.00 
Three lowest 
bids 2.29 
4 C 95 460 3.70 351.50   2.58 
5 B 200 660 3.94 788.00   2.99 
6 B 25 685 4.00 100.00   3.03 
7 D 120 805 4.00 480.00   3.17 
8 E 95 900 4.49 426.55   3.31 
9 F 70 970 4.50 315.00   3.40 
10 G 50 1020 4.75 237.50   3.46 
11 E 115 1135 4.90 563.50   3.61 
12 C 90 1225 4.94 444.60   3.71 
13 F 220 1445 4.95 1089.00   3.90 
14 G 200 1645 5.00 1000.00   4.03 
15 H 120 1765 5.00 600.00   4.10 
16 I 120 1885 5.00 600.00   4.15 
17 I 109 1994 5.00 545.00 CUT-OFF 4.20 
18 I 25 2019 5.50 137.50   4.22 
19 J 120 2139 5.94 712.80   4.31 
20 K 120 2259 6.00 720.00   4.40 
21 L 120 2379 6.00 720.00   4.48 
22 M 55 2434 6.50 357.50   4.53 
23 N 120 2554 6.94 832.80   4.64 
24 O 120 2674 7.00 840.00   4.75 
25 P 120 2794 7.00 840.00   4.84 
26 Q 120 2914 7.00 840.00   4.93 
27 R 106 3020 8.00 848.00   5.04 
28 S 106 3126 8.50 901.00   5.16 
29 M 80 3206 9.00 720.00   5.25 
30 K 100 3306 9.25 925.00   5.38 
Rate of commission payable to PDs on MUC for those who 
have been allotted an amount >= 4% of  notified amount  
4.20 
(weighted average of all allotted bids) 
Rate of commission payable to other PDs on MUC  
2.29 
(weighted average of three lowest bids)

[Page 29]
…………… …….  Annex III 
 
PD Wise eligible commission on ACU and ACU Allotment 
[a] [b] [c] [d]={[b]*10000000*[c]/100}/100 
Successful 
PDs 
Successful bids in 
ACU  
(Rs. Cr) 
Underwriting fee bid 
(in paise / Rs.100) 
Bid wise commission payable 
on ACU (In Rs.) 
A 150 1.52 228,000.00 
A 60 3.50 210,000.00 
A Total 210   438,000.00 
B 155 2.56 396,800.00 
B 200 3.94 788,000.00 
B 25 4.00 100,000.00 
B Total 380   1,284,800.00 
C 95 3.70 351,500.00 
C 90 4.94 444,600.00 
C Total 185   796,100.00 
D 120 4.00 480,000.00 
D Total 120   480,000.00 
E 95 4.49 426,550.00 
E 115 4.90 563,500.00 
E Total 210   990,050.00 
F 70 4.50 315,000.00 
F 220 4.95 1,089,000.00 
F Total 290   1,404,000.00 
G 50 4.75 237,500.00 
G 200 5.00 1,000,000.00 
G Total 250   1,237,500.00 
H 120 5.00 600,000.00 
H Total 120   600,000.00 
I 120 5.00 600,000.00 
I 101 5.00 505,000.00 
I Total 221   1,105,000.00

[Page 30]
……………….  Annex III 
 
Underwriting Commission Details 
PD 
MUC 
amount 
accepted 
ACU 
amount 
accepted 
Total 
amount 
accepted 
Whether 
ACU 
accepted 
is >= 4% 
NA 
Weighted 
average fee 
taken for 
MUC 
commission 
calculation 
Commn. 
on MUC 
Commiss
ion on 
ACU 
Total 
Commissi
on 
  (in crore) (in crore) (in crore)   
(paise per 
Rs.100) (Rs.) 
A 106 210 316 YES 4.20 
         
445,200  438,000 883,200 
B 106 380 486 YES 4.20 
         
445,200  1,284,800 1,730,000 
C 106 185 291 YES 4.20 
         
445,200  796,100 1,241,300 
D 106 120 226 NO 2.29 
         
242,740  480,000 722,740 
E 106 210 316 YES 4.20 
         
445,200  990,050 1,435,250 
F 106 290 396 YES 4.20 
         
445,200  1,404,000 1,849,200 
G 106 250 356 YES 4.20 
         
445,200  1,237,500 1,682,700 
H 106 120 226 NO 2.29 
         
242,740  600,000 842,740 
I 106 221 327 YES 4.20 
         
445,200  1,105,000 1,550,200 
J 106 0 106 NO 2.29 
         
242,740  0 242,740 
K 106 0 106 NO 2.29 
         
242,740  0 242,740 
L 106 0 106 NO 2.29 
         
242,740  0 242,740 
M 106 0 106 NO 2.29 
         
242,740  0 242,740 
N 106 0 106 NO 2.29 
         
242,740  0 242,740 
O 106 0 106 NO 2.29 
         
242,740  0 242,740 
P 106 0 106 NO 2.29 
         
242,740  0 242,740 
Q 106 0 106 NO 2.29 
         
242,740  0 242,740 
R 106 0 106 NO 2.29 
         
242,740  0 242,740 
S 106 0 106 NO 2.29 
         
242,740  0 242,740 
TOTAL 2014 1986 4000     
      
6,029,280  
       
8,335,450  
   
14,364,730

[Page 31]
Annex IV 
 
Illustrations showing PDs’ Commitment to  
T-Bills / CMBs auctions and Success Ratio 
 
A PD has committed to bid aggregatively Rs. 500 crore in T-Bills as shown below. The success 
ratio to be maintained by the PD is 40 per cent in respect of T- Bills/CMBs. Various scenarios in 
respect of fulfillment of the bidding commitment and the success ratio assuming that the bids 
tendered and the bids accepted will be as under: 
                                                                                                            
T-Bills/CMBs:                          (Rs. crore)  
SCENARIOS (I) (II) (III) 
Bidding Commitment                             (a) 500 500 500 
Bids Tendered                                       (b) 600 500 400 
Bids Accepted                                       (c) 300 200 100 
Success Ratio Achieved (c)/ (a)  60% 40% 20% 
Fulfillment of Bidding Commitment  Yes Yes No 
Fulfillment of Success Ratio Yes Yes No 
Success Ratio in T-Bills/CMBs is the ratio of bids accepted to the bidding commitment.

[Page 32]
Annex V 
Format - PDR I Return 
     
 Name of PD:     
 Net Owned Funds (as per last b/s):    
 Return for fortnight ending:    
 Amount in Crore date wise fortnightly statement 
1         
A Outright purchases (Face Value)       
 
    (i)    Government dated securities and T-Bills       
    (ii)   Other securities       
B Outright  sales (Face Value)       
 
    (i)    Government dated securities and T-Bills       
    (ii)   Other securities       
C Repo transactions       
 
   i) Borrowing (amount)        
      - from RBI       
      - from the market       
  ii) Lending (amount)       
      - to RBI       
      - to  the market       
D Call Money transactions       
 
      - Borrowing       
      - Lending       
2 Outstanding balances (Settled position figures)       
A Sources of Funds       
 
a)  Net Owned funds 
(as per last audited balance sheet)       
b) Current year’s accruals under profit /loss account       
c) Call Money Borrowings       
d) Notice Money  borrowings       
e)Term Money  borrowings    
f) Borrowing from RBI under SLF       
g) Borrowing from RBI under LAF    
h) Borrowing under NCDs    
i) Repo borrowing from market        
j) Corporate bond repo borrowing    
k) Borrowing under CBLO         
k) Borrowing under credit lines of banks/FIs       
m) Borrowings through Inter-Corporate Deposits       
       - maturing up to 14 days       
       - maturing beyond 14 days       
n) FCNR(B) Loans       
o) Commercial Paper issuances       
p)Bond issuances    
q) Others (Give details for items in excess of Rs 10 cr)       
 Total

[Page 33]
B Application of Funds       
 
a) Government dated securities, SDL & -Bills  
(Book value)@       
   I) Own Stock        
 
i) Dated G-sec(excluding IIBs) 
ii) IIBs 
iii) SDL 
iv) 91 Day   T Bills 
v) 182 Day T Bills 
vi) 364 Day T Bills 
vii) CMBs 
viii) Others, if any    
 
   II) Stock with RBI under Assured Support       
  III) Stock with RBI under LAF    
   IV) Stock with market for repo borrowing       
b) Lending in Call money Market       
c) Lending in Notice money market       
d) Lending in Term money market    
e) Repo Lending to market       
f) Lending under CBLO         
g) Repo lending to RBI       
h) Investment in Corporate Bonds       
i) Investment in shares       
j) Investment in Mutual funds schemes       
   - debt oriented       
   - equity oriented       
k) Investment in Subsidiaries.        
l) Investment in FDs    
m) Other financial assets if any  
(Give details for items in excess of Rs 10 cr)       
n) Fixed Assets       
o) Others (Give details for items in excess of Rs 10 cr)       
Total       
Own Stock position (SGL Balance) (Face value)       
     i) T-Bills       
      ii) Dated  Securities       
     iii) State Development Loans (SDLs)    
3 a) Portfolio duration for  Securities#    
 b) Portfolio duration for  dated G-Sec    
 c) VaR for the day (with prescribed holding period 
of 15 days) as % of portfolio #    
 d) Leverage ratio (the PD as a whole)#    
 @ Exclude sto ck received as pledge for repo lending to RBI/market participants and also the 
stock reported under II, III and IV. 
      
# Board approved figures may be given in the foot note.

[Page 34]
Annex VI 
Format - PDR II Return 
 
            
                                        
   
 Form 
PDR 2  
  Name of the Primary Dealer   
 
  
  Statement as at the end of :   
 
  
  
 
(Rs. in crore) Cumulative figures 
  SECTION A - SECURITIES MARKETS TURNOVER 
  
 
Dated 
GOI 
Securities IIBs 
State 
Govt. 
Securities 
Treasury 
Bills/CMBs 
Total 
I PRIMARY MARKET 
   
   
  NEW SUBSCRIPTIONS 
  
H1 
(April-
Sep) 
H2 
(Oct-
Mar) 
 i) Bidding Commitment*    N.A.       
ii) Bids Tendered **          
iii) Non-competitive bids          
iv) 
Bids Accepted (A) (including non-comp 
bids)          
v) Success Ratio 
  
     
  REDEMPTIONS (B)          
II TOTAL = I (A) + I (B)          
III UNDERWRITING 
   
  
i) 
Amount offered for underwriting 
(MUC+ACU)      N.A.    
ii) Amount of underwriting accepted by RBI      N.A.    
iii) Amount of devolvement      N.A.    
iv) Underwriting fees received (in Rupees)      N.A.    
IV SECONDARY MARKET TURNOVER - OTC - Outright (including OMO and NDS-OM transactions) 
i) Purchases         
ii) Sales         
  TOTAL OUTRIGHT TURNOVER (A)         
  Of which deals done with non-NDS members:  
  
  
i) Purchases         
ii) Sales         
  REPURCHASEAGREEMENTS: 
   
  
i) Repo (both legs)         
ii) Reverse Repo (both legs)         
  TOTAL REPOS TURNOVER (B)         
V Total Turnover = OTC  IV (A) + IV (B)         
VI 
SECONDARY MARKET TURNOVER - STOCK 
EXCHANGES 
  
  
i) Purchases         
ii) Sales         
  Total (VI)         
 
  TOTAL SECONDARY MARKET TURNOVER  
  
  
 VII (V + VI)         
  
    
  
  TOTAL TURNOVER (II + VII)         
  
* In case of dated government securities, bidding commitment is total underwriting allotment 
(MUC+ACU) 
  ** Include applications made under tap issues

[Page 35]
(normally applicable to State Loans) 
(VIII to XII below is for standalone PDs only) 
VIII REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS WITH RBI UNDER LAF 
  
  
i) Repo (both legs)   
   ii) Reverse Repo (both legs)   
   IX TURNOVER IN EQUITY SHARES AND EQUITY LINKED MUTUAL 
FUND UNITS 
 
  
A. Equity Shares  Purchases   Sales  
 
  
a. Primary Market     
 
  
b. Secondary Market     
 
  
  
    
  
B. Equity Linked Mutual Funds  Purchases   Sales  
 
  
a. Primary Market     
 
  
b. Secondary Market     
 
  
X. CALL (average on daily product basis) 
  
  
i) Borrowings   
  
  
ii) Lendings   
  
  
iii) Net borrowing   
  
  
XI.  NOTICE MONEY (average on daily product basis) 
  
  
i) Borrowings   
  
  
ii) Lendings   
  
  
iii) Net borrowing   
  
  
 
 
 XII. TERM MONEY  
i) Borrowings      …..        
ii) Lendings           ……   
iii) Net Borrowings  ……. 
XII.  Liquidity support  
(i) availed from RBI (average 
on daily product basis)   
...... 
(ii) outstanding at the end of 
month

[Page 36]
SECTION B - EXCHANGE TRADED INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES 
  
    
  
  
 
NPA^^ of the 
futures contract 
outstanding at 
the beginning of 
the month 
NPA of the 
futures 
contract 
entered into 
during the 
month 
NPA of the 
futures 
contract 
reversed 
during the 
month 
NPA of the 
futures 
contract 
outstanding 
at the end 
of the 
month 
  
 
 
   
  
  I. Activity during the month 
   
  
  91 Day Treasury Bill 
   
  
  month 1         
  month 2         
  month 3         
  10 Year Zero Coupon Bond 
   
  
  month 1         
  month 2         
  month 3         
  10 Year Notional Bond 
   
  
  month 1         
  month 2         
  month 3         
  (NPA is to be furnished according to the underlying interest exposure wise breakup)   
  
    
  
  
II. Analysis of "highly effective" 
hedges 
   
  
  
A certificate from Concurrent Auditors stating that the size of the hedge portfolio and that the 
  
  
hedge is highly effective as per the definition of RBI circular dated June 3, 2003 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  III. Analysis of trading positions 
   
  
    
NPA of the 
Trading Futures 
Position 
MTM value 
of the 
trading 
futures 
position 
 
  
  91 Day Treasury Bill 
   
  
  month 2     
 
  
  month 3     
 
  
  10 Year Zero Coupon Bond 
   
  
  month 2     
 
  
  month 3     
 
  
  10 Year Notional Bond 
   
  
  month 2     
 
  
  month 3     
 
  
  ^^ NPA = Notional Principal Amount

[Page 37]
Section C-(For Bank PDs only) 
PD HFT (Book Value in Rs crore) 
 Outstanding on month end Average month end balance 
Dated G-Sec  
(excluding IIBs) 
  
91 Day Treasury Bill   
182 Day Treasury Bill   
364 Day Treasury Bill   
CMBs   
SDLs   
IIBs   
Whether the entire HFT G-Sec is treated as PD book or part of it is treated as PD book? 
entire HFT G-Sec is treated as PD book  
part of HFT G-Sec is treated as PD book

[Page 38]
Section D-(Data on Retail Segment) 
Mid/ retail segment 
 
No. of gilt 
accounts held  
Target for the 
year ended 
June …. 
Retail and mid 
segment turnover 
achieved from July 
till …. 
RRBs -- -- -- 
UCBs -- -- -- 
Trusts -- -- -- 
Provident Funds  
(includes gratuity funds) --     
Individuals -- -- -- 
Others, if any (specify) -- -- -- 
Total --

[Page 39]
Annex VII  
PDR III Return - Format 
 
Statement of Capital Adequacy  - Quarter ended  -    
Name of the Primary Dealer :    
Statement - 1 (Summary)                                                   (Amount in Rs.)                  
  
(i) Total of Risk Weighted Assets(RWA) for Credit Risk  
(Appendix I) 
            
   
(ii) (a) Tier-I Capital funds (after deductions)  
 (b) Tier-II Capital funds eligible  
 (c) Total of available Tier-I & II capital funds  
   
(iii) Minimum credit risk capital required  
 i.e.  (i) x 15 per cent  
   
(iv) Excess of Tier-I & II capital funds available  
 for market risk capital charge i.e. (ii) (c) – (iii)  
   
(v) The Market Risk capital charge worked  
 out as the higher of the amounts under the   
 Standardised method and the one as per   
 internal risk management framework based VaR model  
 (Appendices II and III)  
   
(vi) Capital funds available to meet (v)  
 i.e: excess of Tier-I and Tier-II as at (iv) above,  
   
   
(vii) Over all Capital Adequacy  
 (a)  Total RWA for credit risk i.e. (i)  
 (b) Capital charge for market risk i.e. (v)   
 (c) Numerical Link for (b)   =  6.67  
 i.e.(reciprocal of credit risk capital ratio of 15%)    
 (d)  Risk Weighted Assets relating to  
 Market Risk i.e. (b) x (c)  
 (e)  Total Risk Weighted Assets i.e. (a) + (d)  
 (f) Minimum capital required i.e. (e) x  15%  
 (g) Total Capital funds available i.e. (ii) + (vi)  
 (h) less  :  Capital funds prescribed by other regulators/  
 licensors e.g. SEBI/ NSE/ BSE/OTCEI  
 (i)  Net capital funds available  (g – h)  
 for PD business   
   
(viii) Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) %  (i / e) * 100

[Page 40]
Following Appendices are to be sent along with the PDR III Return: 
    
Appendix I - Details of the various on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet items, the risk 
weights assigned and the risk adjusted value of assets have to be reported in this format. The 
format enclosed is purely illustrative. PDs are required to adhere to the guidelines on activities 
permitted to be undertaken by PDs while diversifying business activities. 
Appendix II - Details of the market risk charge using the standardised model as per the format 
enclosed.     
Appendix III - Details of market risk using the VaR based internal model as per the format 
enclosed.         
Appendix IV - Details of back-testing results for the previous quarter, giving the details of VaR 
predicted by the model, the actual change in the value of the portfolio and the face value of the 
portfolio.    
Appendix V  - Details of stress testing, along with details of the change in the value of the 
portfolio for a given change in the yield, in the format enclosed.

[Page 41]
Appendix I 
  CREDIT RISK              
            
A. BALANCE SHEET ITEMS 
 
FUNDED RISK ASSET BOOK 
VALUE 
Rupees 
RISK 
WEIGHT 
% 
RISK 
ADJUSTED 
VALUE 
I. Cash balances and balances in current account with RBI  0%  
II. Amount lent in call/ notice money market and balances 
in current account with banks 
 
20% 
 
III. Investments 
(a) Government securities/ Approved securities 
guaranteed by Central / State governments other 
than at (e) below 
 
0% 
 
(b) Fixed deposits, Bo nds and Certificates of Deposit 
of  banks, PDs and Public Financial Institutions 
 20%  
(c) Bonds issued by banks / PDs / public financial 
Institutions (as specified by DBR) as Tier-II capital 
 100%  
(d) Shares of all companies/units of mutual funds  100%  
(e) debentures / bonds / commercial papers of 
companies other than in (b) above (As per circular  
DNBR.CO.PD.No.080/03.10.01/2015-16 dated 
April 28, 2016, as amended from time to time) 
 
 
 
i. Short term instruments (Aggregate amount rating 
wise) 
A1+ 
A1 
A2 
A3 
A4&D 
Unrated 
 
 
20% 
30% 
50% 
100% 
150% 
100% 
 
ii. Long term instruments (Aggregate amount rating 
wise) 
AAA 
AA 
A 
BBB 
≤BB 
Unrated 
 
 
20% 
30% 
50% 
100% 
150% 
100% 
 
    
(f) Securities of Public Sector Undertakings 
guaranteed by Central / State Govts.  but issued 
outside the market borrowing programme 
Note: In case where the guarantee has been 
invoked and the concerned state government has 
remained in default, PDs should assign 100% risk 
weight. 
 
20% 
 
(g) Securities of and other exposures on PDs in the 
Government Securities market  including bills 
rediscounted 
 
100%

[Page 42]
(h) Subordinated debts issued by   other PDs as Tier -II 
capital 
 
100% 
 
IV. Current Assets 
(a) Loans to staff  100%  
(b) Other secured loans and advances considered 
good 
 100%  
(c) Others  (to be specified)  100%  
    
V. Fixed Assets (net of depreciation) 
(a) Assets leased out  100%  
(b) Fixed Assets  100%  
VI. Other assets    
(a) Income-tax deducted at source (net of provision) 
 
 0%  
(b) Advance tax paid (net of provision)  0%  
(c) Interest due on Government securities  0%  
(d) Others (to be specified and risk weight indicated  
as per the counter party)  
X%  
 
AA. TOTAL RISK-WEIGHTED BALANCE SHEET ASSETS    
 
B. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ITEMS 
 
FUNDED RISK ASSET BOOK 
VALUE 
Rupees 
CREDIT 
CONV 
FACTOR 
% 
RISK 
WEIGHT 
 
% 
RISK 
ADJ 
VALUE 
i. Share/ debenture/ auction stock underwritten 
- Government/ any exposure guaranteed by 
Government 
 50 0  
- Banks/ Financial Institutions  50 20  
- PDs  50 100  
- All others  50 100  
ii. Partly-paid shares/debentures including actual  
devolvement and other securities 
- Government/ any exposure guaranteed by 
Government 
 100 0 
 
- Banks/ Financial Institutions  100 20  
- PDs in the Government securities market  100 100  
- All others  100 100  
iii. Notional Equity/Index Positions underlying the 
equity derivative 
 100 100 
 
iv. Repurchase agreements where the credit risk  
remains with the PD  
- Government/ any exposure guaranteed by 
Government 
 100 0 
 
- Banks/ Financial Institutions  100 20  
- PDs   100 100  
- All others  100 100  
v. Other contingent liabilities/ commitments like standby  
facility with original maturity of over one year

[Page 43]
- Government/ any exposure guaranteed by 
Government 
 50 0 
 
- Banks/ Financial Institutions  50 20  
- PDs   50 100  
- All others  50 100  
     
vi. Interest Rate Derivative*     
                 Residual maturity of 1 year or less  0.5   
                 Residual maturity of 1 year to 5 years  1   
Residual maturity of over 5 years  3   
vii. Foreign Exchange Contract*     
Residual maturity of 1 year or less  2   
Residual maturity of 1 year to 5 years  10    
Residual maturity of over 5 years  15   
Note: Cash margins/deposits should be deducted before applying the credit conversion factor 
*:Risk weights would be as per the counterparty 
 
BB. TOTAL RISK-WEIGHTED OFF-BALANCE SHEET ASSETS 
 
C. TOTAL RISK-WEIGHTED BALANCE SHEET & OFF-BALANCE SHEET ASSETS

[Page 44]
Appendix II 
PDR-III Quarterly Return 
Statement 2 
MARKET RISK CAPITAL STATEMENT 
(Appreciation in book value not recognized) 
Standardised Method 
A. Interest rate Instruments  & Equity /Equity like instruments
INSTRUM
ENT 
Maturity 
Date 
POSITI
ON (FV) 
BOOK 
PRICE 
BOOK 
VALUE 
MO
DIFI
ED 
DUR
ATI
ON 
DURATI
ON 
BUCKET 
ZONE YIELD ASSUM
ED 
CHANG
E IN 
YIELD 
(bps) 
CHANG
ED 
YIELD 
CHANG
ED 
PRICE 
CHANG
E IN 
PRICE 
MARKET 
RISK 
CHARGE 
(Including 
equity 
positions) 
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 
Total of A 
B. Unhedged Foreign Exchange Position 15% 
Total of B 
 Total 
(A+B) 
P
osition  Market Risk Measure 
(Marked to Market value)  (15% of the position) 
C. U
nhedged Foreign Exchange Position
D. A
sset items subjected to flat charge of 15% for market risk measurement
M
emo items:  
Items of assets which, with the approval of RBI, have been classified as investment items and not 
subjected to market risk measure: 
A
sset Book Value MTM/NAV 
1. 
2. 
3.

[Page 45]
Appendix III 
 
VaR Calculation 
 
Details of the VaR calculation – for the last 60 days 
 Total 
Date Portfolio Value 
(Rs.) 
VaR (Rs.) 
One Day 
VaR with holding 
period 
VaR with holding period as 
a percentage of portfolio 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
(a) Average of 60 day VaR (with holding period)  
(b) 3.3 times the 60 day average VaR (with holding period)  
(c) Last day’s VaR  
(d) Market Risk Measure {higher of (b) and (c) above}

[Page 46]
Appendix IV 
Back Testing of VaR Model 
 
For the last 250 trading days 
 
Backtesting Report as part of PDR III for Quarter ended…………………..  
                                                                    
                                                                              Actual              Hypothetical 
No. of observations (excluding holidays)                 250                  250 
No.  of failures, i.e. No. of times VaR  
underpredicted the actual trading/hypothetical        …..                   …..      
MTM losses  
 
DATE-WISE BACKTESTING RESULTS 
(Rs. in crore) 
S. No. Date 1 day 
VaR 
Entire 
Portfolio 
 
Mkt. 
Value 
Entire 
Portfolio 
Mkt. 
Value 
Next Day 
Same 
Portfolio 
Difference Failure 
(Y/N) 
Actual 
P/L 
Failure 
(Y/N) 
1         
2         
3         
4         
.         
.         
.         
.         
.         
.         
250         
 
The daily VaR preceding holidays should be up-scaled by the square root of number of 
intervening holidays. For, example, if the Friday is followed by 2 holidays, then the one VaR 
figure for Friday should be multiplied by square root of 2.

[Page 47]
Appendix V  
 
Details of Stress Testing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STRESS TEST AS ON:  
Name of the PD:  
ASSETS (All tradable interest rate related assets) 
MTM Value (Rs. Crore) Weighted Average  
Mod. Duration (years) 
1 G-Sec and T-Bills 
2 Corporate/PSU/FI  Bonds 
3 Receiving leg in respect of FRA/IRS 
4 Other tradable interest rate instruments 
Total MTM value of assets (Va) 
Weighted Average Mod. Duration of the assets (Da)  
LIABILITES (excluding NOF) 
MTM Value (Rs. Crore) Weighted Average   
Mod. Duration (years) 
1 Net borrowing Call, notice & term money  
2 Net borrowing in Repo (including LAF of RBI) 
3 Net Borrowing through CBLO 
4 Borrowing through ICDs 
5 Borrowing through CPs 
6 Borrowing through Bond issuances  
7 Credit lines from banks/FIs 
8 Paying leg in respect of FRA/IRS 
9 Other tradable interest rate liabilities 
Total MTM value of liabilities (Vl) 
Weighted Average Mod. Duration of Liabilities (Dl)  
Mod. Duration of NOF (Dn) = (Va*Da - Vl*Dl)/(Va-Vl) 
Percentage change in NOF = (-) Dn*Change in interest rates (1%) 
Change in NOF  = (-) Dn* Change in Interest rates (1%)*NOF 
Other details: 
Net interest income in the current year so far  
Trading profits/loss in the current year so far 
Unrealised MTM (Net gain/loss on cash positions)   
Unrealised MTM (Net gain/loss on derivative positions)   
Other income, if any (Details to be specified) *** 
NOF deployed in fixed income and related instruments 
Total NOF (Break-up to be furnished) 
Note: NOF should be determined as per the definition prescribed in this regard. The MTM gains  
or losses should be adjusted in the NOF. 
***Details of Other Income

[Page 48]
Capital funds of the firm as on the date of stress test 
                                                                                                                                (Rs. in crore) 
   
i. Tier-I Capital  
ii. Tier-II Capital  
   
iii. Total Capital (i+ii)  
   
iv. Details of Deductions  
a. Investment in subsidiaries  
b. Intangible assets  
c. Losses in current accounting period  
d. Deferred tax assets  
e. Losses brought forward from previous accounting periods  
f. Capital funds prescribed by other regulator  
v. Total Deductions(a+b+c+d+e+f)  
vi. Net Total Capital Funds (iii-v)  
 Less  
vii. Change in NOF due to one per cent increase in yields  
viii. Net capital funds available after providing for change in NOF  
ix. Risk-weighted assets for the credit risk of the firm  
x. Risk-weighted assets for the market risk of the firm  
xi. Total risk-weighted assets (ix+x)  
xii. Capital adequacy ratio as on the date of stress test (viii/xi)

[Page 49]
Annex VIII 
(See para 5) 
 
Criteria for use of internal model to measure market risk capital charge 
 
A General criteria 
 
1. In order that the internal model is effective, it should be ensured that : 
 
- the PD's  risk management system is conceptually sound and its implementation 
is certified by external auditors;  
-    the PD has sufficient number of staff skilled in the use of sophisticated models 
not only in the trading area but also in the risk control, audit, and back office 
areas; 
-    the PD has a proven track record of reasonable accuracy in measuring risk (back 
testing); 
- the PD  regularly conducts stress tests along the lines discussed in Para B.4 
below 
2.  In addition to these general criteria, PDs using internal models for capital purposes will be 
subject to the requirements detailed in Sections B.1 to B.5 below. 
 
B.1  Qualitative standards   
         The extent to which PDs meet the qualitative criteria contained herein will influence the level at 
which the RBI will ultimately set the multiplication factor referred to in Section B3 (b) below, for 
the PDs. Only those PDs, whose models are in full compliance with the qualitative criteria, will 
be eligible for use of the minimum multiplication factor. The qualitative criteria include:  
a) A PD should have an independent risk control unit that is responsible for the design and 
implementation of the system. The unit should produce and analyze daily reports on the 
output of the PD's risk measurement model, including an evaluation of the relationship 
between measures of risk exposure and trading limits. This unit must be independent from 
trading desks and should report directly to senior management. 
 
b) The unit should conduct a regular back testing programme, i.e. an ex -post comparison of the 
risk measure generated by the model against actual daily changes in portfolio value over 
longer periods of time, as well as hypothetical changes based on static positions. 
 
c) Board and senior management should be actively involved in the risk control process and 
must regard risk control as an essential aspect of the business to which significant resources 
need to be devoted.  The daily reports prepared by the independent risk control unit must be 
reviewed by a level of management with sufficient seniority and authority to enforce both 
reductions in positions taken by individual traders and reductions in t he PD’s overall risk 
exposure. 
 
d) The PD’s internal risk measurement model must be closely integrated into the day -to-day 
risk management process of the institution.  Its output should accordingly be an integral part 
of the process of planning, monitoring and controlling the PD’s market risk profile.

[Page 50]
e) The risk measurement system should be used in conjunction with internal trading and 
exposure limits.  Trading limits should be related to the PD’s risk measurement model in 
a manner that is consistent over time and that it is well -understood by both traders and 
senior management. 
 
f) A routine and rigorous programme of stress testing should be in place as a supplement 
to the risk analysis based on the day -to-day output of the PD’s risk measurement model.  
The results of stress testing should be reviewed periodically by senior management and 
reflected in the policies and limits set by management and the Board.  Where stress 
tests reveal particular vulnerability to a given set of circumstances, prompt steps should 
be taken to manage those risks appropriately. 
 
g) PDs should have a routine in place for ensuring compliance with a documented set of 
internal policies, controls and procedures concerning the operation of the risk 
measurement system. The risk measurement system m ust be well documented, for 
example, through a manual that describes the basic principles of the risk management 
system and that provides an explanation of the empirical techniques used to measure 
market risk. 
 
h) An independent review of the risk measurement system should be carried out regularly 
in the PD’s own internal auditing process.  This review should include the activities of the 
trading desks as well as the risk control unit.  A review of the overall risk management 
process should take place at regul ar intervals (ideally not less than once a year) and 
should specifically address, at a minimum: 
 
• the adequacy of the documentation of the risk management system and process;  
• the organization of the risk control unit ; 
• the integration of market risk measures into daily risk management; 
• the approval process for risk pricing models and valuation systems used by front and 
back-office personnel;  
 
• the validation of any significant change in the risk measurement process; 
• the scope of market risks captured by the risk measurement model; 
• the integrity of the management information system; 
• the accuracy and completeness of position data; 
• the verification of the consistency, timeliness and reliability of data sources used to 
run internal models, including the independence of such data sources; 
• the accuracy and appropriateness  of volatility and other assumptions;  
• the accuracy of valuation and risk transformation calculations; 
• the verification of the model's accuracy through frequent back testing as described in 
(b) above and in the Annex IX.

[Page 51]
i) The integrity and implementation of the risk management system in accordance with the 
system policies/procedures laid down by the Board should be certified by the external 
auditors as outlined at Para B.5. 
 
j) A copy of the back testing result should be furnished to RBI. 
 
B.2 Specification of market risk factors 
 An important part of a PD’s internal market risk measurement system is the specification of an 
appropriate set of market risk factors, i.e. the market rates and prices that affect the value of the 
PD’s trading positions.  The risk factors contained in a market risk measurement system should 
be sufficient to capture the risks inherent in the entire portfolio of the PD.  The following 
guidelines should be kept in view: 
a) For interest rates, there must be a set of risk factors corresponding to interest rates in each 
portfolio in which the PD has interest-rate-sensitive on-or -off-balance sheet positions. The 
risk measurement system should model the yield curve using one of a number of generally 
accepted approaches, for example, by estimating forward rates of zero coupon yields.  The 
yield curve should be divided into various maturity segments in order to capture variation in 
the volatility of rates along the yield curve. For material  exposures to interest rate 
movements in the major instruments, PDs must model the yield curve using all material risk 
factors, driven by the nature of the PD’s trading strategies.  For instance, a PD with a 
portfolio of various types of securities across many points of the yield curve and engaged in 
complex trading strategies would require a greater number of risk factors to capture interest 
rate risk accurately. The risk measurement system must incorporate separate risk factors to 
capture spread risk (e.g. between bonds and swaps), i.e. risk arising from less than 
perfectly correlated movements between Government and other fixed-income instruments.  
 
b) For equity prices, at a minimum, there should be a risk factor that is designed to capture 
market-wide move ments in equity prices (e.g. a market index).  Position in individual 
securities or in sector indices could be expressed in "beta- equivalents" relative to this 
market-wide index. More detailed approach would be to have risk factors corresponding 
to various sectors of the equity market (for instance, industry sectors or cyclical, etc.), or 
the most extensive approach, wherein, risk factors corresponding to the volatility of 
individual equity issues are assessed. The method could be decided by the PDs 
corresponding to their exposure to the equity market and concentrations. 
 
B.3 Quantitative standards 
a) PDs should update their data sets  at least once every three months and should also 
reassess them whenever market prices are subject to material changes.  RBI may also 
require PDs to calculate their VaR using a shorter observation period if, in its judgement, 
this is justified by a significant upsurge in price volatility.

[Page 52]
b) The multiplication factor will be set by RBI on the basis of the assessment of the quality 
of the PD’s risk management system, as also the back testing framework and results, 
subject to an absolute minimum of 3. The document ‘Back testing’ mechanism to be 
used in conjunction with the internal risk based model for market risk capital charge’, 
enclosed as Annex IX, presents in detail the back testing mechanism. 
 
PDs will have flexibility in devising the precise nature of their models, but the parameters 
indicated at B.1, B.2 and B.3 above are the minimum which the PDs need to fulfill for 
acceptance of the model for the purpose of calculating their capital charge. RBI will have the 
discretion to apply stricter standards.  
 
B.4 Stress testing  
1. PDs that use the internal models approach for meeting market risk capital requirements 
must have in place a rigorous and comprehensive stress testing program to identify events or 
influences that could greatly impact them. 
 
2.      Stress scenarios of PDs need to cover a range of factors than can create extraordinary 
losses or gains in trading portfolios, or make the control of risk in those portfolios very difficult.  
These factors include low -probability events in all major types of risks, including the various 
components of market, credit and operational risks.  
 
3.    Stress test of PDs should be both of a quantitative and qualitative nature, incorporating both 
market risk and liquidity aspects of market disturbances.  Quantitative criteria should identify 
plausible stress scenarios to which PDs could be exposed.  Qualitative criteria should 
emphasize that two major goals of stress testing are to evaluate the capacity of the PD’s capital 
to absorb potential large losses and to identify steps the PD can take to reduce its risk and 
conserve capital.  This assessment is integral to setting and evaluating the PD’s management 
strategy and the results of stress testing should be regularly communicated to senior 
management and, periodically, to the Board of the PD. 
 
4.      PDs should combine the standard stress scenarios with stress tests developed by PDs 
themselves to reflect their specific risk characteristics. Specifically, RBI may ask PDs to provide 
information on stress testing in three broad areas as discussed below.    
 
(a) Scenarios requiring no simulations by a PD 
PDs should have information on the largest losses  experienced during the reporting period 
available for RBI’s review.  This loss information could be compared to the level of capital 
that results from a PD’s internal measurement system.  For example, it could provide RBI 
with a picture of how many days of peak day losses would have been covered by a given 
VaR estimate.

[Page 53]
(b) Scenarios requiring a simulation by a PD 
 PDs should subject their portfolios to a series of simulated stress scenarios and provide RBI 
with the results.  These scenarios could include testing the current portfolio against past 
periods of significant disturbance, incorporating both the large price movements and the 
sharp reduction in liquidity associated with these events. A second type of scenario would 
evaluate the sensitivity of the P D’s market risk exposure to changes in the assumptions 
about volatilities and correlations.  Applying this test would require an evaluation of the 
historical range of variation for volatilities and correlations and evaluation of the PD’s current 
positions against the extreme values of the historical range.  Due consideration should be 
given to the sharp variation that at times has occurred in a matter of days in periods of 
significant market disturbance. 
 
(c) Scenarios developed by a PD to capture the specific characteristics of its portfolio  
 In addition to the scenarios prescribed by RBI under (a) and (b) above, a PD should also 
develop its own stress tests which it identified as most adverse based on the characteristics 
of its portfolio. PDs should provi de RBI with a description of the methodology used to identify 
and carry out stress testing under the scenarios, as well as with a description of the results 
derived from these scenarios. 
 
 The results should be reviewed periodically by senior management an d should be reflected in 
the policies and limits set by management and the Board.  Moreover, if the testing reveals 
particular vulnerability to a given set of circumstances, the RBI would expect the PD to take 
prompt steps to manage those risks appropriately (e.g. by reducing the size of its exposures). 
 
B.5 External Validation 
PDs should get the internal model validated by external auditors, including at a minimum, the 
following: 
(a) Verifying that the internal validation processes described in B.1(h) are oper ating in a 
satisfactory manner. 
 
(b) Ensuring that the formulae used in the calculation process as well as for the pricing of 
complex instruments are validated by a qualified unit, which in all cases should be 
independent from the trading desks.   
 
(c) Checking that the structure of internal model is adequate with respect to the PD’s activities 
and geographical coverage.  
 
(d) Checking the results of the PD’s back testing of its internal measurement system (i.e. 
comparing VaR estimates with actual profits and losses) to ensure that the model provides

[Page 54]
a reliable measure of potential losses over time. PDs should make the results as well as the 
underlying inputs to their VaR calculations available to the external auditors. 
 
(e) Making sure that data flows and processes associated with the risk measurement system 
are transparent and accessible.  In particular, it is necessary that auditors are in a position 
to have easy access, wherever they judge it necessary and under appropriate procedures, 
to the model’s specifications and parameters.

[Page 55]
Annex IX 
BACK TESTING 
 
“Back Testing” mechanism to be used in conjunction with the internal risk based model 
for market risk capital charge 
 
The following are the parameters of the back testing framework for incorporating into the 
internal models approach to market risk capital requirements.   
 
2. PDs that have adopted an internal model -based approach to market risk measurement 
are required routinely to compare daily profits and losses with model -generated risk measures 
to gauge the quality and accuracy of their risk measurement systems.  This process is known as 
"back testing". The objective is the comparison of actual trading results with model -generated 
risk measures. If the comparison uncovers sufficient differences, there may be problems, either 
with the model or with the assumptions of the back test.  
 
3. Description of the back testing framework 
3.1 The back testing program consists of a periodic comparison of the PD’s daily VaR 
measures with the subsequent daily profit or loss (“trading outcome”).  Comparing the risk 
measures with the trading outcomes simply means that the PD counts the number of times that 
the risk measures were larger than the trading outcome.  The fraction actually covered can then 
be compared with the intended level of coverage to gauge the performance of the PD’s risk 
model.  
 
3.2 Under the VaR framework, the risk measure is an estimate of the amount that could be 
lost on a set of positions due to general market movements over a given holding period, 
measured using a s pecified confidence level. The back tests are applied to compare whether 
the observed percentage of outcomes covered by the risk measure is consistent with a 99% 
level of confidence. That is, back tests attempt to determine if a PD’s 99 th percentile risk 
measures truly cover 99% of the firm’s trading outcomes.  
 
3.3 Significant changes in portfolio composition relative to the initial positions are common at 
end of trading day.  For this reason, the back testing framework suggested involves the use of 
risk m easures calibrated to a one- day holding period.  A more sophisticated approach would 
involve a detailed attribution of income by source, including fees, spreads, market movements, 
and intra-day trading results. 
 
3.4 PDs should perform back tests based on the hypothetical changes in portfolio value that 
would occur; presuming end-of-day positions remain unchanged.

[Page 56]
3.5 Back testing using actual daily profits and losses is also a useful exercise since it can 
uncover cases where the risk measures are not accur ately capturing trading volatility in spite of 
being calculated with integrity. 
 
3.6 PDs should perform back tests using both hypothetical and actual trading outcomes.  
The steps involve calculation of the number of times the trading outcomes are not cover ed by 
the risk measures (“exceptions”).  For example, over 200 trading days, a 99% daily risk 
measure should cover, on average, 198 of the 200 trading outcomes, leaving two exceptions. 
 
3.7 The back testing framework to be applied entails a formal testing and accounting of 
exceptions on a quarterly basis using the most recent twelve months as on date. PDs may 
however base the back test on as many observations as possible. Nevertheless, the most 
recent 250 trading days' observations should be used for the purposes of back testing. The 
usage of the number of exceptions as the primary reference point in the back testing process is 
the simplicity and straightforwardness of this approach.   
 
3.8 Normally, in view of the 99% confidence level adopted, 2.5 exceptions may be 
acceptable in the observation period of 250 days. However, in Indian context, a level of 4 
exceptions would be acceptable to consider the model as accurate.  Exceptions above this, 
would invite supervisory actions. Depending on the number of exceptions generated by the PD’s 
back testing model, both actual as well as hypothetical, RBI may initiate a dialogue regarding 
the PD’s model, enhance the multiplication factor, may impose an increase in the capital 
requirement or disallow use of the model as indicated above depending on the number of 
exceptions.   
 
3.9 In case large number of exceptions is being noticed, it may be useful for the PDs to dis -
aggregate their activities into sub sectors in order to identify the large exceptions on their own. 
The reasons could be of the following categories: 
a) Basic integrity of the model      
(i) The PD’s systems simply are not capturing the risk of the positions themselves 
(e.g. the positions of an office are being reported incorrectly). 
 
(ii) Model volatilities and/or correlations were calculated incorrectly (e.g. the 
computer is dividing by 250 when it should be dividing by 225). 
 
b) Model’s accuracy could be improved   
The risk measurement model is not assessing the risk of some instruments with sufficient 
precision (e.g. too few maturity buckets or an omitted spread). 
 Bad luck or markets moved in fashion unanticipated by the model

[Page 57]
(i) Random chance (a very low probability event). 
(ii) Markets moved by more than the likely prediction of the model (i.e. volatility was 
significantly higher than expected). 
(iii) Markets did not move together as expected (i.e. correlations were significantly 
different than what was assumed by the model). 
d) Intra-day trading  
There was a large (and money-losing) change in the PD’s position or some other income 
event between the end of the first day (when the risk estimate was calculated) and the end 
of the second day (when trading results were tabulated).

[Page 58]
Annex X 
 
Format - PDR IV Return 
Name of the Primary Dealer :        
     
Quarterly return on select Financial & Balance Sheet indicators for quarter ended  
    (Rs. in crore) 
I. BALANCE SHEET INDICATORS Quarter ended  Previous  
    (cumulative) Quarter 
SOURCES OF FUNDS     
  Share Capital     
  Reserves & Surplus     
  Deposits, if any     
  Secured loans     
  Unsecured loans     
  TOTAL     
APPLICATION OF FUNDS     
  
Fixed Assets             
                                  a) Tangible asset     
   Gross Block (a+b)     
   less Depreciation     
   
Net block 
b) In tangible asset     
   Add Capital work in progress     
  Investments     
   a. Govt. Securities     
       1. Dated GOI securities     
       2. State Govt. Securities     
       3. T-bills     
   b. Others (Specify)     
  Current Assets, Loans and Advances     
   (A) Current Assets     
   Accrued Interest      
   
Stock-in-Trade: 
i) T bills 91 days 
ii) T bills 182 days 
iii) T bills 364 days 
iv) CMBs 
v) Dated G-Sec 
vi) IIBs 
vii) CDs 
viii) CPs 
ix)  Corporate bonds & Debentures 
x) Equity shares 
xi) Others 
 
Sundry Debtors 
Other Assets     
   Cash& Bank balance     
   (B) Loans & Advances

[Page 59]
Less:     
        
   Other Current Liabilities     
   Provisions     
        
  Net Current Assets     
        
  Deferred Tax     
        
  Miscellaneous Expenses not written off      
        
   
  Others (specify)     
        
  TOTAL     
      Quarter ended 
(cumulative) 
Previous 
Quarter II. P& L INDICATORS 
INCOME     
  Discount Income     
   1. G-sec     
   
2. CPs 
3. CDs 
4.Others     
  Interest Income     
   
1. G-sec(excluding IIBs) 
2. IIBs     
   3. Call/Term     
   
4. Repo 
5.Corporate Bonds     
   6. Others     
  Trading Profits     
   
1.G-sec (excluding IIBs) 
2. IIBs     
   
3.CPs,  
4.CDs 
5.Derivatives 
6.Others     
  Other Income      
   1. G-sec     
   2. Others (specify)     
        
  TOTAL INCOME     
        
EXPENDITURE     
  Interest Expenses     
   1. Call/Term     
   2. Repo     
   
3. Borrowing from RBI 
4.CBLO     
   5. Others

[Page 60]
Operating Expenses     
  Establishment & Administrative Expenses     
  Provisions against doubtful assets     
  Depreciation on Fixed Assets     
  Other expenses (specify)     
        
  TOTAL EXPENDITURE     
  
MTM: Loss or 
Gain      
  PROFIT BEFORE TAX     
  
Less:  
a. provision for taxation  
b. deferred tax     
  PROFIT AFTER TAX     
          
III. FINANCIAL INDICATORS     
        
  Certain Key Figures     
  Dividend paid/proposed      
  Retained earnings     
  Average Earning assets     
  Average Non-earning assets     
*** Average total assets     
   1. Average dated G-sec (Central and State)     
   2. Average T-Bills     
   3. Other average assets     
**** Average Interest bearing liabilities     
   1. Call borrowing     
   2. Repo     
   3. Borrowing from RBI     
   4. Others      
  Average yield on assets      
   
(Total interest income/Average Earning 
Assets)     
  Average cost of funds      
   
(Total interest expended/Average interest 
bearing liabilities)     
  Net interest income     
  Non-interest income     
  Non-interest expenditure     
  Net total income     
   
 
     
  Measures of Return     
  Return on Assets     
  Before tax (PBT/Ave.Total Assets)     
  After tax  (PAT/Ave.Total Assets)     
  Return on average Equity

[Page 61]
Before tax (PBT/Ave.Equity)     
  After tax  (PAT/Ave.Equity)     
  Return on Capital Employed     
  Before tax (PBT/(Owners' Equity+Total Debt))     
  After Tax (PAT/(Owners' Equity+Total Debt))     
  Net Margin Analysis     
  Net Margin (PAT/Total Income)     
  Interest expenses/Total income     
    Quarter ended 
(cumulative) 
Previous 
Quarter  IV. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 
        
   NOF (Rs. in crore)     
        
   CRAR (as %)     
        
   Average duration of the Portfolio (in years)     
        
   Average leverage (as ratio)     
        
   Effect of 1% shock in yields on portfolio value      
   (Rs. in crore)     
        
***** 
 MTM value of all securities (Rs. in crore) 
a. T bill 91 days 
b. T bill 182  days 
c. T bill 364 days 
d. CMBs 
e. Dated G- Sec 
f. IIBs 
g. CPs 
h. CDs 
i. Corporate bonds 
j. Others 
  
    
 Notes:     
 1.  The details of share capital, reserves, etc. may be enclosed as Annexes. 
 2.  Where average figures are involved, it may be taken to mean as average of  
  month end balances.    
     
*** Average assets refer to the simple average of month end book balance. 
**** Average liabilities refer to the simple average of month end book balance. 
***** Before adjusting Repo transactions and MTM depreciation on IRS transactions. 
     
     Signature

[Page 62]
Annex XI 
 
Publication of Financial Results 
 
 
Name of Primary Dealer 
 
Audited Financial Results for the year ended March 31, ………  
 
 
Sources of Funds 
 Capital 
 Reserves and Surplus 
 Loans 
    Secured 
      Unsecured 
    (of which call money borrowings) 
 
Application of Funds 
 Fixed Assets 
 Investments 
  Government Securities (inclusive of T-Bills & CMBs) 
        Commercial Papers 
   Corporate Bonds 
 Loans and Advances 
      (of which call money lendings) 
 Non-Current Assets 
 Others 
 
Profits and Loss account 
 Income (business segment wise) 
  Interest 
  Discount 
  Trading Profit 
 Expenses 
  Interest 
  Administrative Costs 
 Profit before tax 
 Net Profit 
 
Regulatory Capital required (as per  Master Direction for SPDs) 
Actual Capital 
Return on Net Worth 
 
Notes on Accounts:

[Page 63]
Annex XII 
 
Monthly Return on Interest Rate Risk of Rupee Derivatives   
As at end-month     
Name of the Bank/Institution: (Rs. In Cr)  
1. Cash Bonds Market Value  PV01 
(a) (b) (c) 
(a) HFT   (See Note 1) 
(b) AFS   (See Note 1) 
(c) HTM   (See Note 1) 
Total [(a) to (c) above]     
2. Rupee Interest Rate Derivatives 
Notional Amount 
(Rs. in Crore) 
PV01(Rs. in 
Crore) 
(a) Bond Futures   (See Note 1) 
(b) MIBOR (OIS)   (See Note 2) 
(c) MIFOR   (See Note 2) 
(d) G-Sec benchmarks   (See Note2) 
(e) Other benchmarks (Please report 
separately)   (See Note 2&4) 
(f) Forward Rate Agreements   (See Note 3) 
Total [(a) to (f) above]     
  
3. Grand Total of (1) & (2)     
4. Tier I Capital     
  
  
Note 1. PV01 may be taken as POSITIVE for long positions and NEGATIVE for 
short positions. 
Note 2. PV01 may be taken as POSITIVE if receiving a swap and NEGATIVE if 
paying a swap. 
Note 3. For FRAs, use the PVO1 of the underlying deposit/instrument. 
Note 4. In 2 (e) above, swaps on other benchmarks such as LIBOR may be 
reported separately for each benchmark

[Page 64]
Annex XIII 
List of circulars consolidated 
No Circular no Date Subject 
1 IDMC.PDRS.1532 
/03.64.00/1999-00 
November 2, 1999  Primary Dealers – Leverage 
2 IDMC.PDRS.2049A 
/03.64.00/1999-2000 
December 31,1999 Guidelines on Securities transactions to 
be followed by Primary Dealers 
3 IDMC.PDRS.5122 
/03.64.00/1999-00 
June 14, 2000 Guidelines on Securities Transactions by 
Primary dealers 
4 IDMC.PDRS.4135 
/03.64.00/2000-01 
April 19, 2001 Scheme for Bidding, Underwriting and 
Liquidity support to Primary Dealers 
5 IDMC.PDRS.87 
/03.64.00/2001-02 
July 5, 2001 Liquidity support to Primary Dealers 
6 IDMC.PDRS.1382 
/03.64.00/2000-01 
September 18, 2001 Dematerialised holding of bonds and 
debentures 
7 IDMC.PDRS.3369 
/03.64.00/2001-02 
January 17, 2002 Guidelines on Counter party limits and 
Inter-corporate deposits 
8 IDMC.PDRS.4881 
/03.64.00/2001-02 
May 8, 2002 Guidelines to Primary Dealers 
9 IDMC.PDRS.5018 
/03.64.00/2001-02 
May 17, 2002 Scheme for Bidding, Underwriting and 
liquidity support to Primary dealers  
10 IDMC.PDRS.5039 
/03.64.00/2001-02 
May 20, 2002 Transactions in Government securities 
11 IDMC.PDRS.5323 
/03.64.00/2001-02 
June 10, 2002 Transactions in Government securities  
12 IDMC.PDRS. 418 
/03.64.00/2002-03 
July 26, 2002 Publication of Financial results 
13 IDMC.PDRS.1724 
/03.64.00/2002-03 
October 23, 2002 Underwriting of Government dated 
securities by Primary Dealers 
14 IDMC.PDRS.2269 
/03.64.00/2002-03 
November 28, 2002 Publication of Financial results 
15 IDMC.PDRS.2896 
/03.64.00/2002-03 
January 14, 2003 Trading in Government securities on 
Stock Exchanges 
16 IDMC.PDRS.3432 
/03.64.00/2002-03 
February 21, 2003 Ready Forward Contracts 
17 IDMC.PDRS.3820 
/03.64.00/2002-03 
March 24, 2003 Availment of FCNR(B) loans by Primary 
Dealers 
18 IDMC.PDRS.1 
/03.64.00/2002-03 
April 10, 2003 Portfolio Management Services by 
Primary Dealers – Guidelines 
19 IDMC.PDRS.4802 
/03.64.00/2002-03 
June 3, 2003 Guidelines on Exchange Traded Intere st 
Rate Derivatives 
20 IDMC.PDRS.122 
/03.64.00/2002-03 
September 22, 2003 Rationalisation of returns submitted by 
Primary Dealers 
21 IDMD.PDRS.No.3 
/03.64.00/2003-04 
March 08, 2004 Prudential guidelines on investment in 
non-Government securities 
22 IDMD.PDRS.05 
/10.02.01/2003-04 
March 29, 2004 Transactions in Government Securities 
 
23 IDMD.PDRS.06 
/03.64.00/2003-04 
June 03, 2004 Declaration of dividend by Primary 
Dealers 
24 IDMD.PDRS.01 
/10.02.01/2004-05 
July 23, 2004 Transactions in Government securities 
25 IDMD.PDRS.02 
/03.64.00/2004-05 
July 23, 2004 Success Ratio in Treasury Bill auctions for 
Primary Dealers 
26 RBI/2004-05/136 – 
IDMD.PDRS.No.03 
August 24, 2004 Dematerialization of Primary Dealer’s 
investment in equity

[Page 65]
/10.02.16/2004-05 
27 RBI/2005/459 
IDMD.PDRS.4783 
/10.02.01/2004-05 
May 11, 2005 Government Securities Transactions – 
T+1 settlement 
28 RBI/2005/460 
IDMD.PDRS.4779 
/10.02.01/2004-05 
May 11, 2005 Ready Forward Contracts 
29 RBI/2005/474/IDMD.PD
RS/4907/03.64.00/2004-
05 
May 19, 2005 Conduct of Dated  Government Securities 
Auction under Primary Market Operations 
(PMO) module of PDO-NDS – Payment of 
Underwriting Commission 
30 RBI/2005-06/73 
IDMD.PDRS.337 
/10.02.01/2005-06 
July 20, 2005 Transactions in Government Securities 
 
31 RBI/2005-06/132 
IDMD.No.766/10.26.65A
/2005-06 
August 22, 2005 NDS-OM – Counterparty Confirmation 
 
32 RBI/2005-06/308 
DBOD.FSD.BC.No.64/2
4.92.01/2005-06 
February 27, 2006 Guidelines for banks’ undertaking PD 
business 
33 RBI/2006-07/49 
IDMD.PDRS/26/03.64.0
0/2006-07 
July 4, 2006 Diversification of activities by standalone 
Primary Dealers-Operational Guidelines 
34 RBI/2006-2007/298 
FMD.MOAG No.13 
/01.01.01/2006-07 
March 30, 2007 
 
Liquidity Adjustment Facility – Acceptance 
of State Development Loans under Repos 
35 RBI/2007-08/104 
IDMD.530/03.64.00/200
7-08 
July 31, 2007 FIMMDA Reporting Platform for Corporate 
Bond Transactions 
36 DBOD.FSD.BC.No. 
25/24.92.001 
/2006-07 
August 9, 2006 Guidelines for banks under taking PD 
business 
37 RBI/2006-07/140 
IDMD.PDRS.1431 
/03.64.00/2006-07 
October 5, 2006 Operational guidelines for banks 
undertaking/proposing to undertake PD 
business 
38 IDMD/11.08.15/809 
/2007-08 
August 23, 2007 Reporting platform for OTC Interest Rate 
Derivatives 
39 RBI/2007-2008/186 
IDMD.PDRS.No.2382/03
.64.00/2007-08 
November 14, 2007 Revised Scheme of Underwriting 
Commitment and Liquidity Support 
40 RBI/2008-09/187 
IDMD.PDRD.1393 / 
03.64.00/ 2008-09  
September 19, 2008 Settlement of Primary Auctions – 
Shortage of Funds 
41 RBI/2009-10/136  
IDMD.PDRD.1050/ 
03.64.00/2009-10  
August 31, 2009 Investment Portfolio of Primary Dealers -
Relaxation in the existing norms  
 
42 RBI/2009-10/144  
IDMD.PDRD.1097 
/03.64.00/2009-10  
September 2, 2009 Enhancement of Minimum Net Owned  
Funds 
43 RBI/2009-10/143  
IDMD.PDRD.1096 
/03.64.00/2009-10  
September 2, 2009 Increase in Call/Notice Money Borrowing 
Limit  
 
44 RBI/2009-10/242  
IDMD.PDRD.2424 
/03.64.00/2009-10  
December 1, 2009 Waiver of trade confirmation in 
Government Securities transactions in 
OTC market

[Page 66]
45 RBI/2009-10/343  
IDMD.PDRD.3843 
/03.64.00/2009-10 
March 9, 2010 Extension of HTM Category for PDs  
 
46 RBI/2009-10/394  
IDMD.PDRD.4537 
/03.64.00/2009-10  
April 12, 2010 
 
Quantum of Government securities to be 
held in the HTM category by PDs  
 
47 RBI /2009-10 / 496  
IDMD.PDRD.5533 
/03.64.00/2009-10 
June 15, 2010 Primary Dealers – Imposition of Penalties 
– Disclosure 
48 RBI/2009-10 / 497 
IDMD.PDRD.5573 
/03.64.00/2009-10 
June 17, 2010 Cash Management Bills – Bidding 
Commitment and Success Ratio 
49 RBI / 2010 -11/142 
IDMD.PDRD.No.19 
/03.64.00/2010-11 
July 27, 2010 Applicability of Non -Banking Financial 
(Non-Deposit Accepting or Holding) 
Companies Prudent ial Norms (Reserve 
Bank) Directions, 2007 to Primary Dealers 
50 RBI/2010-11/224  
IDMD.PCD.No. 20 
/14.03.05/2010-11 
October 1, 2010  Raising resources through Inter 
Corporate Deposits (ICDs) 
51 RBI/2010-11/270 IDMD. 
PCD.No.1652 
/14.03.05/2010-11 
November 11, 2010 Exposure Norms: Applicability of Non -
Banking Financial (Non-Deposit Accepting 
or Holding) Companies Prudential Norms 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2007 to 
standalone Primary Dealers 
52 RBI/2010-11/401 IDMD. 
PCD.No. 26 
/14.03.05/2010-11 
February 10, 2011 Investment in non-Government Securities- 
Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) of 
maturity up to one year by standalone 
Primary Dealers (PDs). 
53 RBI/2010-11/438 
IDMD.PDRD.No. 
3961/03.64.00/ 
2010-11 
March 18, 2011 FIMMDA accredited brokers for 
transactions in OTC Interest Rate 
Derivatives Market. 
54 RBI/2011-12/162 
IDMD.PCD. 9 
/14.03.05/2011-12 
August 30, 2011 Authorisation Guidelines for Primary 
Dealers (PDs) 
55 RBI/2010-11/542 
IDMD.PCD.No. 
5053/14.03.04/2010-11 
May 23, 2011 Guidelines on Credit Default Swaps 
(CDS) for Corporate Bonds 
56 RBI/2011-12/108 
IDMD.PCD.06/14.03.07/
2011-12 
July 06, 2011 Transactions in Government Securities -
Extension of DVP III facility to Gilt Account 
holders 
57 IDMD.PDRD.No. 
3464/06.64.00/2011-12 
March 07, 2012 Bidding in Primary Auctions-Clarification 
58 RBI/2011-
12/157/IDMD.PCD.08/14
.03.03/2011-12 
August 23, 2011 Issuance of Non -Convertible Debentures 
(NCDs)-Minimum Rating of NCDs 
59 RBI/2011-
12/162/IDMD.PCD.9/14.
03.05/2011-12 
August 30, 2011 Authorisation Guidelines for Primary 
Dealers (PDs)

[Page 67]
60 RBI/2011-
12/324/IDMD.PCD.14/14
.03.07/2011-12 
December 28, 2011 Secondary market transactions in 
Government Securities-Short Selling 
61 RBI/2011-
12/330/IDMD.PCD.17/14
.03.01/2011-12 
December 30, 2011 Exchange-traded Interest Rate Futures 
62 IDMD.PCD.15/ED (RG)-
2011  
December 30, 2011 Interest Rate Futures (Reserve Bank) 
(Amendment) Directions, 2011 
63 RBI/2011-
12/387/IDMD.PCD.19/14
.03.07/2011-12 
February 06, 2012 Transactions in Government Securities 
 
64 RBI/2011-
12/615/IDMD.PCD.21/14
.03.07/2011-12 
June 21, 2012 Secondary market transactions in 
Government Securities-Short Selling 
65 RBI/2012-13/133/ 
IDMD.PDRD.188 
/03.64.00/2012-13 
July 16, 2012 Sale of securities allotted in Primary 
issues on the same day 
66 RBI/2012-13/189/  
IDMD.PCD.No.718/14.0
3.05/2012-13 
September 3,  2012 Applicability of credit exposure norms for 
bonds guaranteed by the Government of 
India 
67 RBI/2012-13/412/ 
IDMD.PCD.No.2310 
/14.03.05/2012-13 
February 06, 2013 Permission to standalone PDs for 
membership in SEBI approved Stock 
Exchanges for trading in corporate bonds 
68 RBI/2012-13/494/ 
IDMD.PDRD.No. 3089/ 
03.64.027/ 2012-13 
May 08, 2013 Submission of Undertaking: Renewal of 
Authorisation 
69  RBI/2012-13/549 
IDMD.PCD.13 
/14.03.07/2012-13 
June 26, 2013  Guidelines on Securities Transactions to 
be followed by Primary Dealers 
70 RBI/2013-14/168 
IDMD.PDRD.No. 346 / 
10.02.23 / 2013-14 
July 31, 2013 Revised PD returns for Primary Dealers 
71 RBI/2013-14/243 
IDMD.PDRD.No. 828/ 
03.64.00 / 2013-14 
September 10, 2013 Increase in HTTM limits for Standalo ne 
PDs 
72 RBI/2013-14/541 
IDMD.PCD. 12/14.03.05/ 
2013-14 
March 27, 2014 Exposure norms for standalone PDs 
73 RBI/2013-14/630 
IDMD.PDRD.No. 
3404/03.64.000/2013-14 
June 5, 2014 Annual Turnover Target on behalf of Mid -
segment and Retail investors for Primary 
Dealers (PDs) 
74 IDMD.PDRD.No.7/03.64
.00/2014-15 
December 15, 2014 Decrease in Held to Maturity (HTM) limits 
for Standalone PDs  
70 IDMD Mailbox January 19, 2012 Maintenance of Distinct PD Book 
71 IDMD Mailbox February 06, 2012 Secondary Market Transactions in 
Government Securities-Short Selling 
72 IDMD Mailbox February 28, 2012 Investment in Cash Management Bills by 
Foreign Institutional Investors

[Page 68]
Annex XIV 
List of circulars referred 
Sr. 
No. Circular no. Date Subject 
1 IDMC No.PDRS./2049A/03.64.00/99-2000 December 31, 1999 Guidelines on Securities Transactions  
to be followed by Primary Dealers 
2 RBI/2004/51DNBS 
(PD)C.C.No.35/10.24/2003-04 
February 10, 2004 Entry of NBFCs into Insurance 
Business 
3 RBI/2005/461 
IDMD.PDRS.4777/10.02.01/2004-05 
May 11, 2005 Sale of se curities allotted in Primary 
issues 
4 RBI/2005-06/309 
IDMD.No.03/11.01.01(B)/2005-06 
February 28, 2006 Secondary Market Transactions in 
Government Securities - Intra-day 
short-selling 
5 RBI-2005-06/352 
DNBS(PD). CC 68 /03.10.042/2005-06 
April 5, 2006 Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 
2002 - Obligations of NBFCs in terms 
of Rules notified there under 
6 RBI/2006-07/178 
IDMD.No.2130/11.01.01(D)/2006-07 
November 16, 2006 When Issued (WI)’ transactions in 
Central Government Securities 
7 RBI/2006-07/243 
IDMD.No./11.01.01(B)/2006-07 
January 31, 2007 Secondary Market Transactions in 
Government Securities - Short-selling 
8 RBI/2006-2007/333 
DBOD.No.BP.BC. 86/21.04.157/2006-07 
April 20, 2007 Comprehensive Guidelines on 
Derivatives 
9 RBI/2006-2007/385 
DNBS.PD/CC 94/03.10.042/2006-07 
May 8, 2007 Guidelines on Corporate Governance 
10 RBI/2007-2008/104 
IDMD. 530 /03.64.00/ 2007-08 
July 31, 2007 FIMMDA Reporting Platform for 
Corporate Bond Transactions 
11 RBI /2007-2008/220 IDMD.DOD.No.3165 
/11.01.01(B)/ 2007-08 
January 1, 2008 Secondary Market Transactions in 
Government Securities - Short-selling 
12 RBI/2007-08/335 
IDMD.DOD.No. 5893 /10.25.66/ 2007-08 
May 27, 2008 NDS – Order Matching (OM) System – 
Access through the CSGL Route 
13 RBI/2008-09/479 
IDMD.No.5877/08.02.33/2008-09 
May 22, 2009 Auction Process of Government of 
India Securities 
14 RBI/2009-10/141 
IDMD.PDRD.No. 1056/03.64.00/2009-10 
September 1, 2009 Guidelines on Exchange Traded 
Interest Rate Derivatives 
15 RBI/2009-10/184 
IDMD No.1764 /11.08.38/2009-10 
October 16, 2009 Settlement of OTC transactions in 
corporate bonds on DvP-I basis 
16 RBI/2009-10/284 
IDMD.DOD.No.05/11.08.38/2009-10 
January 8, 2010 Ready Forward Contracts in Corporate 
Debt Securities 
17 RBI/2009-10/356 
IDMD/4135/11.08.43/2009-10 
March 23, 2010 Guidelines for Accounting of Repo /  
Reverse Repo Transactions 
18 RBI/2009-10/360 
IDMD.DOD.no.7/11.01.09/2009-10 
March 25, 2010 Guidelines on Stripping/Reconstitution 
of Government Securities 
19 RBI/2009-10/505 
IDMD.DOD.10/11.01.01(A)/2009-10 
June 23, 2010 Issuance of Non -Convertible 
Debentures (NCDs) 
20 RBI/2010-2011/115 
IDMD. DOD.17/11.01.01(B)/2010-11 
July 14, 2010 Government Securities Act, 2006, 
Sections 27 & 30 - Imposition of 
penalty for bouncing of SGL forms 
21 RBI/2010-11/268 
IDMD.PCD.22/11.08.38/2010-11 
November 9, 2010 Ready Forward Contracts in Corporate 
Debt Securities 
22 RBI/2010-11/299 
IDMD.PCD.No. 24/14.03.03/2010-11 
December 06, 2010 Issuance of Non -Convertible 
Debentures (NCDs) 
23 RBI/2011-12/324 
IDMD.PCD.14/14.03.07/2011-12 
December 28, 2011 Secondary Market transactions in 
Government Securities- Short selling 
24 RBI/2010-11/542 IDMD.PCD.No. 
5053/14.03.04/2010-11 
May 23, 2011 Guidelines on Credit Default Swaps 
(CDS) for Corporate Bonds

[Page 69]
25 RBI/2011-
12/157/IDMD.PCD.08/14.03.03/2011-12 
August 23, 2011 Issuance of Non -Convertible 
Debentures (NCDs)-Minimum Rating of 
NCDs 
26 RBI/2011-
12/162/IDMD.PCD.9/14.03.05/2011-12 
August 30, 2011 Authorisation Guidelines for Primary 
Dealers (PDs) 
27 RBI/2011-
12/324/IDMD.PCD.14/14.03.07/2011-12 
December 28, 2011 Secondary market tr ansactions in 
Government Securities-Short Selling 
28 RBI/2011-
12/330/IDMD.PCD.17/14.03.01/2011-12 
December 30, 2011 Exchange-traded Interest Rate Futures 
29 IDMD.PDRD.No.3464/06.64.00/2011-12 March 07, 2012 Bidding in Primary Auctions -
Clarification 
30 RBI/2011-
12/615/IDMD.PCD.21/14.03.07/2011-12 
June 21, 2012 Secondary market transactions in 
Government Securities-Short Selling 
31 RBI/2012-13/365/  
IDMD.PCD.09/14.03.02/2012-13 
January 7, 2013 Revised Guidelines on Ready Forward 
Contracts in Corporate Debt Securities 
32 RBI/2012-13/366/  
IDMD.PCD.10/14.03.04/2012-13 
January 7, 2013 Revised Guidelines on Credit Default 
Swaps (CDS) for Corporate Bonds 
33 RBI/2012-13/405/IDMD.PCD.No.2223/ 
14.03.05 /2012-13 
January 30, 2013 Measures to enhance the role of 
standalone Primary Dealers in 
Corporate Bond Market 
34 RBI/2012-13/550 IDMD.PCD.11 
/14.03.06/2012-13 
June 26, 2013  Settlement of OTC transactions in 
Corporate Bonds on DvP-I basis 
35 RBI/2013-14/400 FMD.MSRG.No. 94 
/02.05.002/2013-14 
December 4, 2013 Reporting platform for OTC foreign 
exchange and Interest Rate Derivatives 
36 RBI/2013-14/402  
IDMD.PCD. 08/14.03.01/2013-14 
December 5, 2013 Exchange-Traded Interest Rate 
Futures 
37 RBI/2013-14/410 
IDMD.PCD.09 /14.03.01/2013-14 
December 19, 2013 Participation in Exchang e Traded 
Interest Rate Futures 
38 RBI/2013-14/500 
IDMD.PCD.10 /14.03.06/ 2013-14 
February 24, 2014 FIMMDA’s Trade Reporting and 
Confirmation platform for OTC 
transactions in Corporate Bonds and 
Securitized Debt Instruments 
39 IDMD.PCD.06/14.03.07/2014-15 September 30, 2014 Secondary market transactions in 
Government Securities - Short Selling 
40 FMRD.FMID.01/14.01.02/2014-15 December 19, 2014  F-TRAC – Counterparty Confirmation 
41 FMRD.DIRD.02/14.03.007/2014-15 December 24, 2014 Secondary Market Transactions in 
Government Securities – Short Selling 
42 FMRD.DIRD.04/14.03.002/2014-15 February 03, 2015 Repo in Corporate Debt Securities 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2015 
43 FMRD.DIRD.5/14.03.002/2014-15 February 05, 2015 Re-repo in Government Securities 
Market 
44 FMRD.DIRD.06/14.03.007/2014-15 March 20, 2015 T+2 settlements for outright secondary 
market transactions in Government 
Securities undertaken by Foreign 
Portfolio Investors and reported on 
NDS-OM 
45 DNBR.(PD).CC.No. 033/03.10.001/2014-
15 
April 30, 2015 Distribution of Mutual Fund products by 
NBFCs 
46 FMRD.DIRD.5/14.03.007/2015-16 October 29, 2015 Secondary Market Transactions in 
Government Securities – Short Selling

[Page 70]
47 FMRD.DIRD.06/14.03.07/2015-16 December 10, 2015 When Issued transactions in Central 
Government Securities 
48 FMRD.FMD.No. 02.03.183/7/2015-16 March 17, 2016 Participation of Standalone Primary 
Dealers in Currency Futures Market 
49 DNBR.CO.PD.No.080/03.10.01/ 2015-16 April 28, 2016 Risk Weight in respect of investments 
in Corporate Bonds by Standalone 
Primary Dealers (SPDs) 
50 FMRD.FMID.8/14.01.02/2015-16 April 28, 2016 F-TRAC – Counterparty Confirmation 
51 FMRD.DIRD.10/14.03.002/2015-16 May 19, 2016 Repo / Reverse Repo Transactions 
with RBI
