[Page 1]
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
DEPARTMENT OF NON-BANKING REGULATION   
CENTRAL OFFICE, CENTRE I, WORLD TRADE CENTRE 
CUFFE PARADE, COLABA MUMBAI - 400 005. 
 
 
RBI/DNBR/2016-17/41 
Master Direction DNBR. PD. 005/03.10.119/2016-17                      August 25, 2016 
 
 
 
Master Direction - Miscellaneous Non-Banking Companies (Reserve Bank) 
Directions, 2016 
The Reserve Bank of India (the Bank), having considered it necessary in the public 
interest and being satisfied that for the purpose of enabling the Bank to regulate the 
credit system to the advantage of the country, it is necessary to give the directions 
set out below, in exercise of the pow ers conferred by sections 45J,  45JA, 45K and 
45L of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (Act 2 of 1934) (the RBI Act), and of all 
the powers enabling it in this behalf, and in supersession of the earlier Directions 
contained in Notification No.DNBC.39/DG (H)-77 dated 20th June 1977 as amended 
from time to time issues the following Miscellaneous Non- Banking Companies 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016 (the Directions) applicable to every mi scellaneous 
non-banking company hereinafter specified.

[Page 2]
Index 
 
 
  
Subject 
 
Chapter I – Preliminary 
Chapter II – Definition 
Chapter III –  Non-applicability of the directions to certain types of deposits of money 
Chapter IV –  Acceptance of Deposits 
Chapter V –  General provisions regarding repayment of public deposit 
Chapter VI –  Miscellaneous Instructions 
Chapter VII –  Reporting Requirements 
Chapter VIII – Interpretations 
Chapter IX –  Repeal Provisions

[Page 3]
Chapter – I 
Preliminary 
 
1. Short title and commencement of the directions 
(a) These directions shall be known as the “Miscellaneous Non-Banking Companies 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016”.  
(b) These directions shall come into force with immediate effect.  
2. Applicability of the Directions 
These directions shall apply to every financial institution which is a company and 
carries on, in any place in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, any of the following 
types of business and to every financial institution which is a company and carries 
on, in any place in India, any of the types of  business referred to in sub- paragraphs 
(2) to (4) below:- 
(1) Collecting whether as a promoter, foreman, agent or in any other capacity monies 
in one lump sum or in instalments by way of contributions or subscriptions or by sale 
of units, certificates or other instruments or in any other manner or as membership 
fees or admission fees or service charges to or in respect of any savings, mutual 
benefit, thrift, or any other scheme or arrangement by whatever name called, and 
utilising the monies so collected or any part thereof or the income accruing from 
investment or other use of such monies for all or any of the following purposes- 
(a) giving or awarding periodically or otherwise to a specified number of subscribers 
as determined by lot, draw or in any other  manner, prizes or gifts in cash or in kind, 
whether or not the recipient of the prize or gift is under a liability to make any further 
payment in respect of such scheme or arrangement; 
(b) refunding to the subscribers or such of them as have not won any prize or gift, 
the whole or part of the subscriptions, contributions or other monies collected, with or 
without any bonus, premium, interest or other advantage, howsoever called, on the 
termination of the scheme or arrangement, or, on or after the expiry of  the period 
stipulated therein; 
 
(2) managing, conducting or supervising as a promoter, foreman or agent of any 
transaction or arrangement by which the company enters into an agreement with a 
specified number of subscribers that every one of them shall subscribe a certain sum 
in instalments over a definite period and that every one of such subscribers shall in

[Page 4]
his turn, as determined by lot or by auction or by tender or in such other manner as 
may be provided for in the agreement be entitled to the prize amount; 
Explanation 
For the purposes of this sub- paragraph, the expression "prize amount" shall mean 
the amount, by whatever name it be called, arrived at by deduction from out of the 
total amount subscribed at each instalment by all subscribers, 
(a) the com mission charged by the company or service charges as a promoter or a 
foreman or an agent; and 
(b) any sum which a subscriber agrees to forego, from out of the total subscriptions 
of each instalment, in consideration of the balance being paid to him; 
 
(3) C onducting any other form of chit or kuri which is different from the type of 
business referred to in sub-paragraph (2) above; 
 
(4) undertaking or carrying on or engaging in or executing any other business similar 
to the business referred to in sub-paragraph (1) to (3). 
 
(5) This Direction consolidates the regulations as issued by Department of Non-
Banking Regulation, Reserve Bank of India. However, any other 
Directions/guidelines issued by any other Department of the Bank, as applicable to a 
Miscellaneous Non-Banking Company shall be adhered to by it.  
Chapter II 
Definitions 
 
3.  In these directions, unless the context otherwise requires, 
(a) "Act" means the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (Act 2 of 1934); 
(b) "banking company" means a banking company as defined in section 5(c) of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Act 10 of 1949); 
(c) "company" means a company as defined in section 45 I(aa ) of the RBI Act but 
does not include a company which is being wound up under any law for the time 
being in force; 
(d) "deposit" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 45 I(bb) of the 
RBI Act; 
(e) "depositor" means any person who has made a deposit with the company;

[Page 5]
(f) "foreman" means a person who under the chit or kuri agreement or any other 
scheme or arrangement is responsible for the conduct of the chit or kuri or such 
scheme or arrangement; 
(g) "free reserves" shall include the balance in the share premium account, capital 
and debenture redemption reserves and any other reserve shown or published in t he 
balance sheet of a company and created through an allocation of profits, not being (i) 
a reserve created for repayment of any future liability or for depreciation in assets or 
for bad debts; or (ii) a reserve created by revaluation of the assets of the company; 
(h) "miscellaneous non- banking company" means a company carrying on all or any 
of the types of business referred to in paragraph 2 of the directions. 
 
(2) Words or expressions used but not defined herein and defined in the RBI Act, 
shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in RBI Act. Any other words or 
expressions not defined herein or in the RBI Act shall have the same meaning as 
assigned to them in the Companies Act, 1956 ( Act 1 of 1956)  or Companies Act 
2013(Act 18 of 2013) as the case may be. 
 
Chapter III 
Non-applicability of the directions to certain types of deposits of money 
 
4. Nothing contained in Chapter IV , Chapter V and paragraph 19 of the 
directions shall apply to the following types of deposits received by a miscellaneous 
non-banking company, namely:- 
(i) Any money received or collected under a transaction or arrangement referred to in 
sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph 2 the directions; 
(ii) any money received from the Central Government or a State Government or any 
money received from any other source and the repayment of which is guaranteed by 
the Central Government or a State Government or any money received from a local 
authority or a foreign Government or any other foreign citizens, authority or person; 
(iii) any money rec eived from a banking company or from the State Bank of India or 
from a banking institution notified by the Central Government under section 51 of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949 ( Act 10 of 1949) or a corresponding new bank as 
defined in section 2 of the B anking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of 
Undertakings) Act, 1970 ( Act 5 of 1970) or from a co- operative Bank as defined 
in section 5 (cci) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Act 10 of 1949);

[Page 6]
(iv) any loan received from the Industrial Development Bank of India established 
under the Industrial Development Bank of India Act, 1964 (18 of 1964) or the 
Industrial Credit & Investment Corporation of India Ltd., established under the Indian 
Companies Act, 1913 ( Act 7 of 1913) or the Industrial Finance Corporation of India 
established under the Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948 ( Act 15 of 1948) or 
the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India Ltd., or the Life Insurance Corporation of 
India established under the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 ( Act 31 of 1956) 
or the Small Industries Development Bank of India established under the Small 
Industries Development Bank of India Act, 1989 (Act 39 of 1989) or a State Financial 
Corporation established under the State Financial Corporation Act, 1951 ( Act 63 of 
1951) or Unit Trust of India established under the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 ( Act 
52 of 1963) or the General Insurance Corporation of India and its subsidiaries or the 
Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd., or the National Industrial 
Development Corporation of India Ltd., or the SCICI Ltd. , or the Rehabilitation 
Industries Corporation of India Ltd., or any Electricity Board constituted under the 
Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 or the State Trading Corporation of India Ltd. or the 
Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd., or the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation 
of India Ltd., or the Agricultural Finance Corporation Ltd., or the State Industrial and 
Investment Corporation of Maharashtra Ltd., or the Gujarat Industrial and Investment 
Corporation Ltd. or  the Asian Development Bank, or International Finance 
Corporation, or any other financial institution wholly owned by the Central 
Government or a State Government or  any other financial institution that may be 
notified by the Reserve Bank in this behalf; 
(v) any money received from an employee of the company by way of security deposit 
for due performance of his duties: 
Provided that the amount of such security deposit is deposited with a scheduled 
bank or a post office in the joint names of t he employee and the company on the 
conditions, that,- 
(a) it shall not be withdrawn without the consent in writing of the employee; and 
(b) it shall be repayable to the employee in accordance with the terms of his 
employment along with interest paid by bank/post office on the deposit account; 
(vi) any money raised by issue of debentures or bonds with predetermined terms of 
conversion without any option given, either to the issuer or the holder for conversion 
of the said debentures or bonds into equity share capital;

[Page 7]
(vii) any amount received and held pursuant to an offer made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, towards subscription to any securities, 
including share application money or advance towards allotment of securities 
pending allotment, to such extent and for such period as permissible under the 
Companies (Acceptance of Deposit) Rules, 2014 and as amended from time to time. 
 
Chapter IV 
Acceptance of Deposits 
 
5. Acceptance of deposits by miscellaneous non-banking companies (MNBCs) 
On and from 1st July 1977, no miscellaneous non- banking company shall:- 
(a) receive any deposit repayable on demand or on notice, or repayable after a 
period of less than six months and more than thirty six months from the date of 
receipt of such deposit or renew any deposit received by it, whether before or after 
the aforesaid date unless such deposit, or renewal, is repayable not earlier than six 
months and not later than thirty six months from the date of such renewal: 
 
(b) receive or renew :- 
(i) any deposit from a shareholder, if the amount of such deposit already received 
and outstanding in the books of the company as on the date of acceptance or 
renewal of such deposits, exceeds fifteen per cent of its net owned funds 
(ii) any other deposit, including non-convertible bonds or debentures. 
Provided that where a miscellaneous non -banking company is holding any deposit 
accepted from any person other than its shareholders, the same shall be repaid on 
maturity and shall not be eligible for renewal. 
Explanation 
Net owned fund means- 
(a) the aggregate of the paid up equity capital and free reserves as disclosed in the 
latest balance sheet of the company after deducting therefrom - 
(i) accumulated balance of loss; 
(ii) deferred revenue expenditure; and 
(iii) other intangible assets; and

[Page 8]
(b) further reduced by the amounts representing 
(1) investments of such company in shares of 
(i) its subsidiaries; 
(ii) companies in the same group; 
(iii) all other non-banking financial companies; and 
 
(2) the book v alue of debentures, bonds, outstanding loans and advances 
(including hire purchase and lease finance) made to, and deposits with 
(i) subsidiaries of such company; and 
(ii) companies in the same group 
to the extent such amount exceeds ten per cent of (a) above. 
 
6. Particulars to be specified in application form soliciting deposit 
No miscellaneous non-banking company shall accept, renew or convert any deposit 
except on a written application from the depositor in the form to be supplied by the 
company, which shall contain all the particulars specified in the Non- Banking 
Financial Companies and Miscellaneous Non- Banking Companies (Advertisement) 
Rules, 1977, made under section 58A of the Companies Act, 1956 (Act 1 of 1956). 
 
7. Furnishing of receipts to depositors 
(1) Every miscellaneous non- banking company shall furnish to every deposit or or 
group of joint depositors  or his agent, unless it has done so already, a receipt for 
every amount which has been or which may be received by the company by way of 
deposit before or after the date of commencement of the Directions. 
(2) The said receipt shall be duly signed by an officer entitled to act for the company 
in this behalf and shall state the date of deposit, the name of the depositor, the 
amount in words and figures received by the company by way of deposit, the rate of 
interest payable thereon and the date on which the deposit is repayable. 
 
8. Register of deposits 
(1) Every miscellaneous non- banking company shall keep one or more registers in 
which shall be entered separately in the case of each depositor the following 
particulars, namely- 
(a) name and address of the depositor,

[Page 9]
(b) date and amount of each deposit, 
(c) duration and the due date of each deposit, 
(d) date and amount of accrued interest or premium on each deposit, 
(e) date and amount of each repayment, whether of principal, interest or premium, 
(f) any other particulars relating to the deposit. 
 
(2) The register or registers aforesaid shall be kept at the registered office of the 
company and shall be preserved in good order for a period of not less than eight 
calendar years following the financial year in which the latest entry is made of the 
repayment or renewal of any deposit of which particulars are contained in the 
register: 
Provided that if the company keeps the books of account referred to in sub- section 
(1) of section 209 of the Companies Act, 1956 ( Act 1 of 1956) at any place other 
than its registered office in accordance with the proviso to that sub-section, it shall be 
sufficient compliance with this sub- paragraph if the register aforesaid is kept at such 
other place, subject to the condition that the company delivers to the Bank a copy of 
the notice filed with the Registrar under the proviso to the said sub- section within 
seven days of such filing. 
 
9. Information to be included in the Board's report 
(1) In every report of the Board of Directors laid before the company in general 
meeting under sub- section (1) of section 217 of the Companies Act, 1956 ( Act 1 of 
1956) after the date of commencement of these directions, there shall be included in 
the case of miscellaneous non- banking company, the following particulars or 
information, viz. 
(a) the total number of depositors of the company whose deposits have not been 
claimed by the depositors or paid by the company after the date on which the deposit 
became due for repayment or  renewal as the case may be according to the contract 
with the depositor or the provisions of these directions, whichever may be applicable, 
and 
(b) the total amount due to the depositors and remaining unclaimed or unpaid 
beyond the dates referred to in clause (a) as aforesaid. 
 
(2) The said particulars or information shall be furnished with reference to the 
position as on the last date of the financial year to which the report relates and if the

[Page 10]
amounts remaining unclaimed or undisbursed as referred to in clause (b) of the 
preceding sub- paragraph exceed in the aggregate the sum of rupees five lakhs, 
there shall also be included in the report a statement on the steps taken or proposed 
to be taken by the Board of Directors for the repayment of the amounts due to the 
depositors and remaining unclaimed or undisbursed. 
 
10. Ceiling on the rate of interest and brokerage 
(1) No miscellaneous non- banking company shall:- 
(a) invite or accept or renew deposit on a rate of interest exceeding twelve and a half 
per cent per annum. Interest may be paid or compounded at rests which shall not be 
shorter than monthly rests: 
(b) pay to any broker for deposits collected by or through him, brokerage in excess of 
the rates specified below:- 
(i) where a deposit is for a 
period not exceeding one year. 
: one percent of such deposit 
(ii) where a deposit is for a 
period exceeding one year but 
not exceeding two years. 
: one and a quarter per cent (not 
per annum) of such deposit 
(iii) where  a deposit is for a 
period exceeding two years. 
: one and a half per cent (not per 
annum) of such deposit. 
 
11. Intimation of maturity of deposits to depositors 
It shall be the obligation of the miscellaneous non- banking company to intimate the 
details of maturity of the deposits to the depositors at least two months before the 
date of maturity of the deposit. 
 
12. Renewal of deposits before maturity 
Where any miscellaneous non -banking company permits an existing depositor 
“being a shareholder,” to renew his deposit before maturity for availing the benefit of 
higher rate of interest, such company shall pay the depositor the increase in the rate 
of interest provided 
(i) the deposit is renewed in accordance with the other provisions of these directions 
and for a period longer than the remaining period of the original contract; and

[Page 11]
(ii) the interest on the expired period of the deposit is reduced by one percentage 
point from the rate which the company would have ordinarily paid, had the deposit 
been accepted for the period for which such deposit has run and/or paid earlier and 
recovered/adjusted. 
 
13. Renewal of overdue deposits 
A miscellaneous non -banking company may, at its discretion, allow interest on an 
overdue deposit or a portion of the said overdue deposit from the date of maturity of 
the deposit provided that: 
a) the total amount of overdue deposit or the part thereof is renewed from the date of 
its maturity till some future date in accordance with the other provisions of these 
directions; and 
b) the interest allowed shall be at the appropriate rate operative on the date of the 
maturity of such overdue deposit which shall be payable only on the amount of 
deposit so renewed. 
 
Chapter V 
General Provisions regarding repayment of deposits 
 
14. Minimum lock-  in period and r epayment in the event of death of the 
depositor 
No miscellaneous non- banking company shall grant any loan against deposits or 
make premature repayment of deposit within a period of three months (lock -in 
period) from the date of its acceptance: 
Provided that in the event of death of a depositor, a miscellaneous non -banking 
company -shall repay the deposit prematurely, even within the lock – in period, to the 
surviving depositor/s in the case of joint holding with survivor clause,  or to the 
nominee or the legal heir/s of the deceased depositor, on the request of the surviving 
depositor/s/nominee/legal heir, and only against submission of proof of death, to the 
satisfaction of the company. 
 
15. Repayment of deposits by a miscellaneous non- banking company not 
being a problem miscellaneous non-banking company 
Subject to the provisions contained in paragraph 14 , a miscellaneous non -banking 
company not being a problem miscellaneous non-banking company may,

[Page 12]
(a) with effect from October 05, 2004, permit premature repayment of a deposit at its 
sole discretion: 
Provided that in the case of a deposit accepted prior to the aforesaid date, such 
miscellaneous non- banking company shall , if so permitted by the terms and 
conditions of acceptance of such deposit, repay it prematurely at the request of the 
depositor, after the expiry of three months from the date of deposit; 
(b) grant a loan up to seventy -five percent of the amount of deposit to a depositor 
after the expiry of th ree months from the date of deposit at a rate of interest two 
percentage points above the interest rate payable on the deposit. 
 
16. Repayment of deposits by a problem miscellaneous non-banking company 
Subject to the provisions contained in paragraph 14  above, in order to enable a 
depositor to meet expenses of an emergent nature, a problem miscellaneous non-
banking company shall make premature prepayment of, or grant a loan against, a 
deposit in the following cases only, namely: 
(a) repay a tiny deposit in entirety or repay any other deposit up to an amount not 
exceeding `10,000/-; or 
(b) grant a loan against a tiny deposit or up to an amount not exceeding ` 10,000/- 
against any other deposit at a rate of interest two percentage points above the 
interest rate payable on the deposit. 
 
17. Clubbing of deposits by a problem miscellaneous non-banking company 
All deposit accounts standing to the credit of sole/first named depositor in the same 
capacity shall be clubbed and treated as one deposit account for the purpose of 
premature repayment or grant of loan by a problem miscellaneous non -banking 
company; 
Provided that this clause shall not apply to premature repayment in the event of 
death of depositor as provided in paragraph 14 above. 
 
18. Rate of interest on premature repayment of deposits 
Where a miscellaneous non- banking company, whether at its sole discretion or at 
the request of the depositor, as the case may be, repays a deposit after three 
months from the date of its acceptance, but before its maturity (including premature 
repayment in the case of death of the depositor), it shall pay interest at the following 
rates:

[Page 13]
After 3 months but 
before 6 months 
No interest 
After 6 months but 
before the date of 
maturity 
The interest payable shall be 2 per cent lower than the 
interest rate applicable to a deposit for the period for 
which the deposit has run or if no rate has been 
specified for that period, then 3 per cent lower than the 
minimum rate at which deposits are accepted by the 
miscellaneous non-banking company. 
 
Explanation: For the purpose of this paragraph, 
(a) ‘problem miscellaneous non -banking company’ means a miscellaneous non-
banking company which - 
(i) has refused or failed to meet within five working days any lawful demand for 
repayment of the matured deposits; or 
(ii) intimates the CLB under section 58AA of the Companies Act, 1956, about its 
default to a small depositor in repayment of any deposit or part thereof or any 
interest thereupon; or 
(iii) approaches the Bank for withdrawal of the liqui d asset securities to meet its 
deposit obligations; or 
(iv) approaches the Bank for any relief or relaxation or exemption from the provisions 
of Miscellaneous Non- Banking Company (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016 for 
avoiding default in meeting deposit or other obligations; or 
(v) has been identified by the Bank to be a problem miscellaneous non -banking 
company either suomoto or based on the complaints from the depositors about non-
repayment of deposits or on complaints from the company’s lenders about non-
payment of dues. 
(b) ‘tiny deposit’ means the aggregate amount of deposits not exceeding `10,000/ - 
standing in the name of the sole or the first named depositor in the same capacity in 
all the branches of the miscellaneous non-banking company.

[Page 14]
Chapter VI 
Miscellaneous Instructions 
 
19. Advertisement and statement in lieu of advertisement 
(1) Every miscellaneous non- banking company shall comply with the provisions of 
the Non-Banking Financial Companies and Miscellaneous Non- Banking Companies 
(Advertisement) Rules, 1977 and shall also specify in every advertisement to be 
issued thereunder, the following: 
(a) the actual rate of return by way of interest, premium, bonus or other advantage to 
the depositor; 
(b) the mode of payment to depositor; 
(c) maturity period of deposit; 
(d) the interest payable on a specified deposit; 
(e) the rate of interest which will be payable to the depositor in case the depositor 
withdraws the deposit prematurely, the terms and conditions subject to whic h a 
deposit will be renewed; 
(f) any other special features relating to the terms and conditions subject to which the 
deposits are accepted/renewed; and 
(g) that the deposits solicited by it are not insured 
 
(2) Where a company intends to accept deposits without inviting or allowing or 
causing any other person to invite such deposits, it shall before accepting deposits, 
deliver to the Regional Office of the Department of Non -Banking Supervision of the 
Bank, within whose jurisdiction its registered office is situated, for r egistration, a 
statement in lieu of advertisement containing all the particulars required to be 
included in the advertisement pursuant to the Non-Banking Financial Companies and 
Miscellaneous Non- Banking Companies (Advertisement) Rules, 1977 as also the 
particulars stated in sub- paragraph (1) hereinabove, duly signed in the manner 
provided in the aforesaid Rules. 
 
(3) A statement delivered under sub- paragraph (2) shall be valid till the expiry of six 
months from the date of closure of the financial year in which it is so delivered or 
until the date on which the balance sheet is laid before the company in general 
meeting or where the annual general meeting for any year has not been held, the 
latest day on which that meeting was required to be  held in accordance with the

[Page 15]
provisions of the Companies Act , 1956 (Act 1 of 1956), whichever is earlier, and a 
fresh statement shall be delivered in each succeeding financial year before 
accepting deposits in that financial year. 
 
20. Joint Deposit 
Where so desired, deposits may be accepted in joint names not exceeding three, 
with or without any of the clauses namely, "Either or Survivor/s", "Number one or 
Survivor/s", "Any one or Survivor/s". 
 
21. Exemption 
The Bank may, if it considers it necessary for avoiding any hardship or for any other  
just and sufficient reason, grant extension of time to comply with or exempt any 
company or class of companies, from all or any of the provisions of these directions 
either generally or for any specified period subject to such conditions as the Bank 
may impose. 
 
22. Applicability of Know Your Customer (KYC) Direction, 2016 
All miscellaneous non-banking companies having customer interface shall  follow the 
Know Your Customer (KYC) Direction, 2016, issued by the Department of Banking 
Regulation and as amended from time to time.  
 
23. Deposits from Non-Resident Indians 
No miscellaneous non-banking company shall invite or accept or renew repatriable  
deposits from Non- Resident Indians in terms of Notification No.FEMA.5/2000- RB 
dated May 3, 2000  under Non -Resident (External) Account Scheme at a rate 
exceeding the rate specif ied by the Bank for such deposits with scheduled 
commercial banks. 
Explanation - The period of above deposits shall be not less than one year and not 
more than three years. 
 
24. Non-applicability of certain other directions 
Nothing contained in the Non -Banking Financial Companies Acceptance of Public 
Deposits (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016 and Non- Banking Financial Company -  
Systemically Important Non -Deposit taking Company and Deposit taking Company

[Page 16]
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016,  shall apply to a financial institution of the type 
referred to in paragraph 2 of these Directions. 
 
Chapter - VII 
Reporting Requirements 
25. The reporting requirements in respect of miscellaneous non- banking companies 
as prescribed by Department of Non-Banking Supervision shall be adhered to by the 
miscellaneous non-banking company.  
 
Chapter - VIII 
Interpretations 
 
26.  For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of the Directions, the Bank 
may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in respect of any matter 
covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of the Directions given by the 
Bank shall be final and binding on all the parties concerned. Violation of these 
directions shall invite penal action under the provisions of  RBI Act. Further, these 
provisions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of the provisions of any other 
laws, rules, regulations or directions, for the time being in force. 
27.  It is hereby clarified that the supersession of Miscellaneous Non- Banking 
Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 1977 as amended from time to time, shall not 
in any way affect 
(i) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred thereunder; 
(ii) any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention 
committed thereunder; 
(iii) any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, 
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, and any 
such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued, or 
enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if those 
directions had not been superseded.

[Page 17]
Chapter - IX 
Repeal Provisions 
 
28. With the issue of the directions, the instructions / guidelines contained in the 
following circulars issued by the Bank stand repealed (list as provided below).All 
approvals / acknowledgements given under the above circulars shall be deemed as 
given under the directions. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken/purported 
to have been taken or initiated under the instructions/guidelines having repealed 
shall continue to be guided by the provisions of said instructions/guidelines.  
Sr. 
No. Notification No. Date Subject 
1 Notification No. DNBC 
41/ED(T)-79  
May 9, 1979 Extent of the Miscellaneous Non -Banking 
Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions 
2 Notification No. 
44/ED(B)-81 
April 15, 
1981 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations 
3 Notification No. DNBC 
46/ED(B)/87 
February 24, 
1982 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations 
4 Notification 
No.DFC(COC) 62 
DG(J)-91  
September 
19, 1991 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations 
5 Notification 
No.DFC(COC) 65 
DG(T)/91-92 
June 17, 
1992 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations 
6 Notification No. 
DFC(COC) 67 ED(S)-93 
April 10, 
1993 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations 
7 Notification No. 
DFC(COC) 71ED (S)/93 
May 12, 1993 Amendments to NBFC Regulations 
8 Notification No. DFC 
(COC) 74 ED(S)-94 
April 19, 
1994 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations 
9 Notification No. 79 
DG(T)/94 
December 
31, 1994 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations 
10 Notification No. 
DFC(COC)87 
ED(JRP)/96 
July 24, 1996 Amendments to NBFC Regulations 
11 Notification 
No.94.ED(JRP)/96  
January 1, 
1997 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations 
12 Notification No 
.DFC(COC) 104-
ED(JRP)/97  
March 31, 
1997 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations 
13 Notification 
DNBS.145/CGM(VSNM)
-2000 
June 30, 
2000 
Miscellaneous Non -Banking Companies 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 1977  
14 DNBS(PD)CC.No.14/02.
01/2000-01  
March 31, 
2001 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations - 
Ceiling on Rate of Interest  
15 DNBS.(PD).CC.No.16/0
2.01/2000-01 
June 27, 
2001 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations 
16 DNBS(PD)CC.No.17/02.
01/2001-02  
October 31, 
2001 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations - 
Ceiling on Rate of Interest

[Page 18]
17 DNBS.PD.CC.No.21/02.
01/2002-03 
October 01, 
2002 
Non-Banking Financial Companies - 
Amendments to Regulations (i) 
Transactions in Government Securities 
18 DNBS (PD) 
C.C.No.30/02.01/2003-
04 
September 
17, 2003 
Non-Banking Financial Companies 
Acceptance of Public Deposits (Reserve 
Bank) Directions, 1998 - Interest Rate on 
NRI Deposits 
19 DNBS(PD)C.C.No.32/02
.01/2003-04  
October 28, 
2003 
Non-Banking Financial Companies 
(NBFCs) Miscellaneous Non-Banking 
Companies (MNBCs) and Residuary Non-
Banking Companies (RNBCs) - Interest 
Rate on NRE Deposits 
20 DNBS.(PD)C.C.No.33/0
2.01/2003-04  
October 30, 
2003 
Non-Banking Financial Companies, 
Miscellaneous Non- Banking Companies 
and Residuary Non-Banking Companies - 
Interest Rate on NRI Deposits  
21 DNBS (PD) 
CC.No.36/02.01/2003-
04  
April 20, 
2004 
Non-Banking Financial Companies, 
Miscellaneous Non- Banking Companies 
and Residuary Non-Banking Companies - 
Interest Rate on NRI Deposits  
22 DNBS 
(PD)C.C.No.44/02.01/20
04-05  
October 05, 
2004 
Premature Repayment of Public Deposits 
or Deposits 
23 DNBS.(PD)C.C.No.60/0
2.01/2005-06 
December 
09, 2005 
Premature Repayment of Public Deposits 
or Deposits  
24 DNBS(PD)CC.No.92/03.
02.089/2006-07  
April 24, 
2007 
Amendments to NBFC Regulations - 
Ceiling on rate of interest 
25 DNBS.(PD).CC.No.159/
03.03.01/2009-10  
August 28, 
2009 
Acceptance of Deposits by Chit Fund 
Companies 
 
 
 
(C. D. Srinivasan) 
Chief General Manager

[Page 19]
First Schedule 
(Please see paragraph 19 of Chapter VI of the Directions) 
Area under the jurisdiction of each Regional Office of the 
 
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
Name and address of the   Area under jurisdiction 
Office                   
 
1.    Ahmedabad Regional Office,  State of Gujarat and Union 
       1st Floor, Main Building,   Territories of Daman and Diu 
       Near Gandhi Bridge,   and Dadra and Nagar Haveli 
       Ahmedabad-380 014. 
 
2.    Bangalore Regional Office,  State of Karnataka. 
       10-3-8, Nrupathunga Road, 
       Bangalore-560 002. 
 
3.    Bhopal Regional Office,  States of Madhya Pradesh and 
       Hoshangabad Road,    Chhattisgarh 
       Post Box No.32, 
       Bhopal-462 011. 
 
4.    Bhubaneswar Regional Office State of Orissa. 
       Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Marg, 
       Post Bag No.16, 
       Bhubaneswar-751 001. 
 
5.   Kolkata Regional Office,   States of Sikkim, and West    
      15, Netaji Subhas Road,  Bengal and the Union Territory 
      Kolkata 700 001.   of Andaman and Nicobar Islands 
 
6.   Chandigarh Regional Office,             States of Himachal Pradesh, 
      11, Central Vista,                 Punjab and the Union 
       New Office Building             Territory of Chandigarh. 
      Opp. Telephone Bhavan,  
      Sector 17, Chandigarh-160 017. 
 
7.   Chennai Regional Office,                State of Tamil Nadu and Union 
      Fort Glacis, RajajiSalai,   Territory of Pondicherry. 
      Chennai-600 001. 
 
8.    Guwahati Regional Office,  States of Arunachal Pradesh, 
       Station Road, Pan Bazar,  Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, 
       Post Box No.120,    Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura. 
       Guwahati-781 001. 
 
9.    Hyderabad Regional Office,  State of Andhra Pradesh and 
       6-1-56, Secretariat Road,           Telangana 
       Saifabad,  
       Hyderabad-500 004.

[Page 20]
10.  Jaipur Regional Office,  State of Rajasthan. 
       Ram Bagh Circle, 
       Tonk Road, P.B.No.12, 
       Jaipur-302 004. 
 
11.   Jammu Regional Office,  State of Jammu and Kashmir. 
        Rail Head Complex, 
        Post Bag No.1, 
        Jammu-180 012. 
 
12.   Kanpur Regional Office  States of Uttar Pradesh and  
 Mahatma Gandhi Marg,             Uttaranchal  
 Kanpur - 208 001  
 
13.   Mumbai Regional Office,            States of Goa and Maharashtra 
        Reserve Bank of India Building, 
        3rd Floor,  
        Opp. Mumbai Central Station    
        Byculla, Mumbai-400 008.    
 
14.   New Delhi Regional office,  State of Haryana and  
        6, Sansad Marg,    National Capital Territory 
       New Delhi-110 001.             of Delhi. 
 
15.   Patna Regional Office,  States of Bihar and Jharkhand 
        South of Gandhi Maidan, 
        Post Bag No.162, 
        Patna-800 001. 
 
16.   Thiruvananthapuram     State of Kerala and Union 
        Regional Office,              Territory of Lakshadweep 
        Bakery Junction,     
        Thiruvananthapuram-695 033. 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
