[Page 1]
Page 1 of 13 
RBI/FIDD/2017-2018/55 
Master Direction FIDD.CO.FSD.BC No.8/05.10.001/2017-18      July 03, 2017  
The Chairman/Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer  
All scheduled commercial banks 
(including Small Finance Banks and excluding Regional Rural Banks) 
Madam / Sir, 
Master D irection – Reserve  Bank of I ndia (Relief  Measur es by bank s in areas 
affected by Natural Calamities) Directions 2017 
Please refer to our ‘ Master Direction FIDD.No.FSD.BC.2 /05.10.001/2016-17 dated July 1, 
2016’ incorporating guidelines issued to banks in regard to matters relating to relief measures to 
be provided in areas affected by natural calamity. 
This Master Direction consolidates all the guidelin es issued on the subject till date. Th e list 
of circulars compiled into this Master Direction is given in the Appendix. 
Please acknowledge receipt. 
Yours faithfully, 
(Ajay Kumar Misra) 
Chief General Manager

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 13 
 
Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Relief Measures by Banks in Areas 
Affected by Natural Calamities) Directions, 2017 
In exercise of the  powers conferred under Sections 21 and 35A of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949, the Reserve Bank of India being satisfied that it is necessary 
and expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby, issues the Directions 
hereinafter specified. 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
1.1 Short Title and Commencement. 
(a) These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Relief Measures by 
Banks in Areas Affected by Natural Calamities) Directions, 2017. 
(b) These Directions shall come into effect on the day they are placed on the 
official website of the Reserve Bank of India. 
1.2. Applicability 
The provisions of these Directions shall apply to every Scheduled Commercial 
Bank { including Small Finance Banks (SFBs) and excluding Regional Rural 
Banks(RRBs)} licensed to operate in India by Reserve Bank of India. 
CHAPTER II 
BACKGROUND 
2.1 Periodical but frequent occurrence  of natural calamity takes a heavy toll o n 
human life and cause wide spread damage to economic pursuits in one or the other 
part of the country. The devastation caused by natural calamities call s for massive 
rehabilitation effort from all agencies. The Central, State and local authorities draw 
programmes on economic rehabilitation for  the people affected by natural 
calamities. The developmental role assigned to the commercial banks  including 
Small Finance Banks  warrant their active support in reviving the economic 
activities of those affected by the occurrence of a natural calamity. 
2.2 In terms of the National Disaster Management Framework, there are two funds 
constituted viz. National Disaster Response Fund  (NDRF) and State Disaster

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 13 
 
Response Fund (SDRF) for providing relief in the affected areas. This framework 
currently recognizes 12 types of natural calamities viz. cyclone, drought, 
earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami, hailstorm, landslide, avalanche, cloud burst, pest 
attack and cold wave/frost. Out o f these 12, for 4 calamities i.e. drought, 
hailstorms, pest attack and cold wave/frost, the Ministry of Agriculture is the nodal 
point and for the remaining 8, the  Ministry of Home Affairs is the nodal ministry 
to make the necessary administrative arrangements. A slew of measures for relief 
are undertaken by the Sovereign (Central/State Government) from time to time  to 
provide relief to the affected people including, inter alia, provision for input 
subsidies, financial assistance to farmers including small and marginal farmers. 
2.3 The role of the schedule d commercial banks including Small Finance Bank s 
(SFBs) is to  provide relief measure through rescheduling existing loans and 
sanctioning fresh loans as per the emerging requirement  of the borrowers. To 
enable banks to take  uniform and concerted action expeditiously, these directions 
are issued covering four aspects viz. Institutional Fram ework (Chapter III ), 
Restructuring of Existing Loans ( Chapter IV), Providing Fresh Loans ( Chapter V) 
and Other Ancillary Relief Measures (Chapter VI). 
CHAPTER III 
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK 
3.1 Establishing Policy/Procedures for dealing with Natural Calamities 
The area,  time of occurrence and intensity of the natural calamity  cannot be 
anticipated. It is, therefore, imperative that banks have a blueprint of action duly 
approved by the Board of Directors for such eventualities so that the required relief 
and assistance is provided with utmost speed and without any loss of time. Further, 
all Divisional/Zonal Offices  and branches of Scheduled C ommercial/Small 
Finance banks should be familiar with these standing instructions . These standing 
instructions will immediately come to force after the district/state authorities put in 
place the requisite declaration.  It is essential that these instructions should also be 
made available to the State Government authorities and all the District Collectors 
so that all concerned are aware about the action that  should be taken by the  
concerned authorities in the affected area.

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 13 
 
3.2 Discretionary Powers to Divisional / Zonal Manager of banks 
The Divisional/Zonal Managers of scheduled commercial/SF banks must be vested 
with certain discretionary powers to  avoid the need to seek fresh approval from 
their Central Office regarding the lin e of action decided by the District 
Consultative Committee /State Level Bankers’ Committee. Some of the areas, 
among others where such discretionary powers are vital  may be the  adoption of 
scale of finance, extension of loan period,  margin, security, sanction of new loan 
keeping in view the total liability of the borrower arising out of the old loan where 
the asset financed is damaged or lost due to the natural calamity and the new loan 
financed for creation/repair of such asset(s).  
3.3 Meeting of State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC)/District Consultative 
Committee (DCC) 
3.3.1 In the event of an occurrence of a natural calamity which covers a larger part 
of a State, the State Level Bankers’ Committee convener bank should convene a 
meeting immediately. The committee, in collaboration with the State Government 
authorities should  evolve a coordinated action plan for implement ing the relief 
programme.  If the calamity has affected only a small part of the s tate/few districts, 
the convener of the District Consultative Committee of the affected district( s) 
should convene a meeting immediately. In the special SLBC/DCC meeting, the 
position of the affected areas may be assessed so as to ensure speedy formulation 
and implementation of suitable relief measures. 
3.3.2 In the areas where the calamity is severe, the relief measure (s) implemented 
should be reviewed periodically through a specially constituted Task Force/Sub-
Committee by way of weekly/fortnightly meetings as decided by the SLBC/DCC.   
3.4 Declaration of Natural Calamity 
3.4.1 It is recognised that declaration of a natural calamity is in the domain of the 
Sovereign (Central / State Governments). The inputs received from the State 
Governments reveal that there are no uniform procedures being followed for 
declaration of natural calamity and issue of declarations / certificates. These 
declarations/certificates are called by different names such as Annewari, Paisewari, 
Girdawari, etc. in different States. Nevertheless, the common thread to extend

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 13 
 
relief measures including reschedulement of loans by banks, is that  the crop loss 
assessed should be 33% or more . For assessing this loss, while some States are 
conducting crop cutting experiments to determine the loss in crop yield, some 
others are relying on the eye estimates/visual impressions. 
3.4.2 In case of extreme situations such as wide -spread floods, etc. when it is 
largely clear that most of the standing crops have been damaged and/or land and 
other assets have suffered a wide-spread damage, the matter be deliberated by State 
Government/District Authorities in the especially convened SL BC/DCC meetings 
where the concerned Government functionary/District Collector may explain the 
reasons for not estimating ‘Annewari’ (percentage of crop loss – by whatever name 
called) through crop cutting experiments and that the decision to provide relief for 
the affected populace needs to be taken based on the eye estimate/visual 
impressions. 
3.4.3 In both the cases, however, DCCs/SLBC have to satisfy themselves fully that 
the crop loss has been 33% or more before acting on these pronouncements. 
CHAPTER IV 
RESTRUCTURUNG OF EXISTING LOANS 
In the event of a natural calamity, the repaying capacity of the people gets severely 
affected due to the disruption of their  economic activities and loss of economic 
assets. Therefore, relief in loan  repayment, by restructuring the existing loan may 
become necessary. 
4.1. Agriculture Loans: Short-term Production Credit (Crop Loans) 
4.1.1 All short -term loans, except those which are overdue at the time of 
occurrence of natural calamity, should be eligible for restructuring. The principal 
amount of the short -term loan as well as interest due for repayment in the year of 
occurrence of the natural calamity may be converted into term loan. 
4.1.2 The repayment period of  the restructured loan may vary depending on the 
severity of the calamity, the impact on  loss of economic assets and distress  it 
caused. A maximum repayment period of up to 2 years (including t he moratorium 
period of 1 year) should be allowed if the loss is between 33% and 50%. If the crop

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 13 
 
loss is 50% or more, repayment period may be extended up to a maximum of 5 
years (including the 1 year moratorium period). 
4.1.3 In all restructured loan accounts, moratorium period of at least one year 
should be considered. Banks should also not insist on additional collateral security 
for such restructured loans. 
4.2 Agriculture Loans: Long term (Investment) Credit 
4.2.1 The existing term loan installments should be rescheduled  keeping in view 
the repaying capacity of the borrower and the nature of natural calamity viz. 
4.2.1.1 Natural Calamities where only crop for that year is damaged and productive 
assets are not damaged. 
4.2.1.2 Natural Calamities where the productive assets are partially or totally 
damaged and borrowers are in need of a new loan. 
4.2.1.3 In regard to natural calamity under category (4.2.1.1) above, the banks may 
reschedule the payment of installment during the year of natural calamity and 
extend the loan period by one year. Under this arrangement the installmen ts 
defaulted wilfully in earlier years will not be eligible for rescheduling. The banks 
may also have to postpone payment of interest by borrowers. 
4.2.1.4 In regard to category (4.2.1.2) i.e. where the borrower’s assets are 
partially/totally damaged, the rescheduling by way of extension of loan period may 
be determined on the basis of overall repaying capacity of the borrower vis- a-vis 
his total liability (old term loan, restructured crop loan, if any and the fresh 
crop/term loan being given) less the subsidies received from the Government 
agencies, compensation available under the insurance schemes, etc. While the total 
repayment period for the restructured/fresh term loan will differ on case -to-case 
basis, generally it should not exceed a period of 5 years. 
4.3 Other Loans 
4.3.1 A view needs to be taken by SLBC/DCC depending on the severity of the 
calamity as to whether a general reschedulement of all other loans (i.e. besides the 
agriculture loans as indicated above) such as loans granted for allied activities and

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 13 
 
loans given to rural artisans, traders, micro/small industrial units or in case of 
extreme situations, medium enterprises is required. If such a decision is taken, 
while recovery of all the loans be postponed by the specified period, banks will 
have to assess the requir ement of the individual borrowers in each such case and 
depending on the nature of his account, repayment capacity and the need for the 
fresh loans, appropriate decisions shall be taken by the individual banks 
4.3.2 The primary consideration before the banks in extending credit to any unit for 
its rehabilitation should be  based on  the viability of the venture after the 
rehabilitation programme is implemented. 
4.4 Asset Classification 
The asset classification status of the restructured loans will be as under: 
4.4.1 The restructured portion of the short term as well as long- term loans may be 
treated as current dues and need not be classified as NPA. The asset classification 
of these term loans would thereafter be governed by the revised terms and 
conditions. Nevertheless, banks are required to make higher provisions for such 
restructured standard advances as prescribed by Department of Banking 
Regulation1 from time to time. 
4.4.2. The asset classification for the remaining dues, which does not form a part of 
the restructured portion, will continue to be governed by the original terms and 
conditions of its sanction . Consequently, the due s from the borrower shall be 
classified by the lending bank under different asset classification categories viz. 
standard, sub-standard, doubtful and loss. 
4.4.3. Additional finance, if any, shall be treated as “standard asset” and its future 
asset classification will be governed by the terms and conditions of its sanction. 
4.4.4. With the objective to ensure that banks are proactive in extending relief to 
the affected persons, the benefit of asset classification of the restructured account 
as on the date of natural calamity will be available only if the restructuring is 
completed within a period of three months from the date of natural calamity. In the 
event of extreme calamity, when the SLBC/DCC is of the view that this period will 
                                                            
1 DBR’s Master Directions on Prudential Guidelines on Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 13 
 
not be sufficient for the banks  to reschedule all the  affected loans, it should 
immediately approach the concerned Regional Office of RBI detailing the reasons 
for seeking extension. Such requests will be considered on the merit of each case. 
4.4.5 The accounts that are restructured for the second time or more on account of 
recurrence of natural calamities should retain the same asset classification category 
on restructuring. Accordingly, for a restructured standard asset, the subsequent 
restructuring necessitated on account of  natural calamity would not be treated as 
second restructuring, i.e., the standard asset classification will be allowed  to be 
maintained. However, all other restructuring norms will apply.  
4.5 Utilization of Insurance Proceeds 
4.5.1 While the above measures relating to rescheduling of loans are intended to 
provide relief to the farmers, the insurance proceeds should, ideally, compensate 
their losses. In terms of orders issued by the Department of Agriculture , 
Cooperation and Farmers Welfare , the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana 
(PMFBY) has, replaced the existing schemes of National Agricultural Insurance 
Scheme (NAIS) & Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (MNAIS)  
with effect from Kharif 2016.  Under the scheme all agriculture loans are provide d 
insurance cover for all stages of the crop cycle including post -harvest risks in 
specified instances. Farmers’ details are required to be entered by banks in the 
unified portal for crop insurance which is available at  www.agri-insurance.gov.in 
in order to facilitate assessment of coverage of crops insured, premiums deducted, 
etc.  
4.5.2 While restructuring the loans in areas affected by a natural calamity, banks 
should also take into account the insurance proceeds, if any, receivable from the 
Insurance Company. They should adjust these proceeds to the ‘restructured 
accounts’ in cases where they have granted fresh loan to the borrower. However, 
banks should act wi th empathy and consider restructuring and granting fresh loans 
without waiting for the receipt of insurance claim, in cases where there is  
reasonable certainty of receiving the claim.

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 13 
 
CHAPTER V 
PROVIDING FRESH LOANS 
5.1 Sanctioning of Fresh Loans 
5.1.1 Once the decision  to reschedule loans is taken by SLBC/DCC, pending 
conversion of short -term loans, ba nks shall grant fresh crop loan to the affected 
people based on the scale of finance for the crop and the cultivation area, as per the 
extant guidelines2. 
5.1.2 The bank assistance in agriculture and allied activities (poultry, fishery, 
animal husbandry, etc.) may also be  needed for long term loans  for a variety of 
purposes such as repair of existing economic asset (s) and/or acquisition of new 
asset(s). Similarly, rural artisans, self-employed persons, micro and small industrial 
units, etc. in the areas affected by  a natural calamit y may require fresh credit to 
sustain their livelihood. Banks should assess the need and decide on the quantum 
of loans to be granted to the affected borrowers taking into consideration, amongst 
others, their credit requirement and the due procedure for sanctioning loans. 
5.1.3. Banks shall also grant consumption loan up to ₹  10,000/- to existing 
borrowers without any collateral. The limit may, however, be enhanced beyond ₹ 
10,000/- at the bank’s discretion. 
5.2 Terms and Conditions 
5.2.1 Guarantee, Security and Margin 
5.2.1.1 Credit should not be denied for want of personal guarantees. Where the 
bank’s existing security has been eroded because of damage or destruction by 
floods, assistance will not be denied merely for want of additional fresh security. 
The fresh loan shall be granted even if the value of security (existing as well as th e 
asset to be acquired from the new loan) is less than the loan amount. For fresh 
loans, a sympathetic view will have to be taken. 
5.2.1.2 Where the crop loan (which has been converted into term loan) was earlier 
sanctioned against personal security/ hypothecation of crop and the borrower is not 
able to offer charge/mortgage of land as security for the converted loan, she/he  
                                                            
2 Master circular on Kisan Credit card Scheme available @ www.rbi.org.in

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 13 
 
should not be denied conversion facility merely on the ground of his /her inability 
to furnish land as security. If the borrower has already taken a term loan against 
mortgage/charge on land, the bank should be content with a second charge for the 
converted term loan. Banks should not insist on third party guarantee for providing 
conversion facility. 
5.2.1.3 Where land is taken as security , in the absence of original title record, a 
certificate issued by the Revenue Department officials may be accepted for 
financing to farmers who have lost proof of their title such as  title deed or 
registration certificate issued to registered share-croppers. 
5.2.1.4 Margin requirements may be waived or the grant/subsidy given by the 
concerned State Government may be considered as margin. 
5.3 Rate of Interest 
The rates of interest will be in accordance with the directives of the Reserve Bank. 
Within the areas of their discretion, however, banks are expected to take a 
sympathetic view of the difficulties of the borrowers and extend a concessional 
treatment to calamity -affected people. In respect of current dues in default, no 
penal interest will be charged. The banks should also suitably defer the 
compounding of interest charges. Banks may not levy any penal interest and 
consider waiving penal interest, if any, already charged in regard to the loans 
converted/rescheduled. Depending on the nature and severity of natural calamity, 
the SLBC/ DCC shall take a view on the interest rate concession that could be 
extended to borrowers so that there is uniformity in approach among banks in 
providing relief. 
CHAPTER VI 
OTHER ANCILLARY MEASURES 
6.1 Relaxation on Know Your Customer (KYC) Norms  
It needs to be recognized that many persons displaced or adversely affected by a 
major calamity may not have access to their normal identification and personal 
records. In such cases a small account based on the photograph and signature or 
thumb impression rendered in front of the bank official shall be opened. The above 
instructions will be applicable to cases where the balance i n the account does not

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 13 
 
exceed ₹ 50,000/- or the amount of relief granted (if higher) and the total credit in 
the account does not exceed ₹1,00,000/- or the amount of relief granted, (if higher) 
in a year. 
6.2 Providing access to Banking Service 
6.2.1 Banks may operate its natural calamity affected branches from temporary 
premises under advice to the concerned Regional Office of RBI. For continuing the 
temporary premise beyond 30 days,  banks may obtain specific  approval from the 
concerned Regional Office of RBI. Banks may also make arrangements to render 
banking services in the affected areas by setting up satellite offices, extension 
counters or mobile banking facilities etc. under intimation to RBI. 
6.2.2 To meet the immediate cash requirement  of the affected people , due 
importance may be given towards  restoring the ATMs  or other alternate 
arrangements maybe provided to avail such facilities.  
6.2.3 Other measures that banks may initiate at their discretion  to alleviate the 
condition of the affected people could be waiving ATM fees, increasing ATM 
withdrawal limits; waiving overdra ft fees /early withdrawal penalty on time 
deposits /late fee for credit card/other loan installment payments  etc. and giving 
option to credit card holders to convert their outstanding balance to EMIs 
repayable in 1-2 years. Besides, all charges debited to t he farm loan account other 
than the normal interest may be waived considering the hardship caused to the 
affected people. 
CHAPTER VII 
RIOTS AND DISTURBANCES: APPLICABILITY OF THE GUIDELINES 
Applicability of the guidelines in case of riots and disturbances 
7.1 Whenever RBI advises the banks to extend rehabilitation assistance to the riot/ 
disturbance affected persons, the aforesaid guidelines may broadly be followed by 
banks for the purpose. It should, however, be ensured that only genuine persons, 
duly identified by the State Administration as having been affected by the riots/ 
disturbances, are provided assistance as per the guidelines.

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 13 
 
7.2. The issuance of advice to the banks by Reserve Bank of India on receipt of 
request/ information from State Government  and thereafter issue of instructions by 
banks to their branches generally results in delay in extending the assistance to 
riot-affected people. With a view to ensuring quick relief to the affected persons, it 
has been decided that the District Collector, on occurrence of the riots/ 
disturbances, may ask the Lead Bank Officer to convene a meeting of the DCC, if 
necessary and submit a report to the DCC on the extent of damage caused to life 
and property in the area affected by riots/disturbances. If the DCC is satisfied that 
there has been extensive loss to life and property on account of the riots/ 
disturbances, the relief as per the above guidelines may be extended to the people 
affected by the riots/ disturbances. In certain cases, where there are no District 
Consultative Committees, the District Collector may request the convener of the 
State Level Bankers’ Committee of the State to convene a meeting of the bankers 
to consider extension of relief to the affected persons. The report submitted by the 
Collector and the decision thereon of DCC/ SLBC may be recorded and should 
form a part of the minutes of the meeting. A copy of the proceedings of the 
meeting may be forwarded to the concerned Regional Office of the Reserve Bank 
of India.

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 13 
 
Appendix 
Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Relief Measures by Banks in Areas  
Affected by Natural Calamities) Directions, 2017 
List of circulars consolidated for the Master Direction 
Sr. 
No. Circular No. Date Subject 
1. RPCD.No.PS.BC.6/PS.126-84 2.8.1984 Revised guidelines for relief 
measures by banks in areas affected 
by natural calamities 
2. RPCD.No.PLFS.BC.38/PS.126-91/92 21.9.1991 Banks’ assistance to persons affected 
by riots/ communal disturbances, etc. 
3. RPCD.No.PLFS.BC.59/05.04.02/92-93 6.1.1993 Guidelines for Relief Measures by 
banks in areas affected by natural 
calamities-(Consumption Loans) 
4. RPCD.No.PLFS.BC.128/05.04.02/97-98 20.6.1998 Relief measures to persons affected 
by natural calamities –  Agricultural 
advances 
5. RPCD.PLFS.BC.No.42/05.02.02/2005-06 1.10.2005 The Advisory Committee on Flow of 
credit to Agriculture and related 
activities from the Banking System 
6. FIDD No.FSD.BC.12/05.10.001/2015-16 21.8.2015 Guidelines for Relief Measures by 
Banks in Areas Affected by Natural 
Calamities 
7. FIDD NO.FSD.BC.27/05.10.001/2015-16 30.06.2016 Guidelines for Relief Measures by 
Banks in Areas Affected by Natural 
Calamities- Utilization of Insurance 
Proceeds
