[Page 1]
1 
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
Department of Banking Regulation 
Central Office 
Mumbai-400 001 
RB
I/2015-16/211 
Master Direction No.DBR.IBD.No.45/23.67.003/2015-16                 October 22, 2015 
     (Updated as on March 25, 2025) 
(Updated as on August 04, 2022) 
(Updated as on October 28, 2021) 
   (Updated as on April 05, 2021) 
    (Updated as on August 16, 2019) 
    (Updated as on January 9, 2019) 
         (Updated as on June 7, 2018)     
     (Updated as on March 31, 2016) 
  (Updated as on January 21, 2016) 
Gold Monetization Scheme, 2015 
In exercise of  the power s conferred on the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) under 
Section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and in pursuance of the Central 
Government notification issued vide Office Memorandum F.No. 20/6/2015-FT dated 
September 15, 2015 and press release ID 2115009 dated March 25, 2025 regarding 
“Gold Monetization Scheme (GMS)”, the R BI being satisfied that it is in the public 
interest, so to do, hereby issues  these Directions to all Scheduled Commercial 
Banks (excluding Regional Rural Banks). 
CHAPTER – I 
PRELIMINARY 
1.1 Objective 
GMS, which modifies the existing ‘Gold Deposit Scheme’ (GDS) and ‘Gold Metal 
Loan Scheme (GML), is intended to mobilise gold held by households and 
institutions of the country  and facilitate its use for productive purposes, and in the 
long run, to reduce country’s reliance on the import of gold.

[Page 2]
2 
 
1.2. Short title and commencement  
i. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Gold 
Monetization Scheme) Directions, 2015. 
ii. All Scheduled Commercial Banks excluding RRBs  will be eligible to 
implement the Scheme. 
iii. The banks intending to participate in the Scheme should formulate a 
comprehensive policy with approval of the board to implement it.  
1.3 Definitions 
In these Directions, unless the context otherwise requires , the following terms shall 
bear the meanings assigned to them below: 
i. Collection and Purity Testing Centre (CPTC)  - The collection and assaying 
centres certified by the B ureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and notified by the 
Central Government for the purpose of handling gold deposited and 
redeemed under GMS. 
 
ii. Designated bank  –     All Scheduled Commercial Banks ( excluding RRBs ) 
that decide to implement the Scheme. 
 
iii. GMS Mobilisation, Collection & Testing Agent (GMCTA) - 
Jewellers/Refiners certified as CPTCs by BIS and meeting additional eligibility 
conditions set by IBA will be recognised as GMCTA by designated banks.1 
 
iv. Gold Deposit Account – An account opened with a designated bank under 
the Scheme and denominated in grams of gold. 
 
v. Medium and Long Term Government D eposit (MLTGD) - The deposit of 
gold made under the GMS with a designated bank in  the account of the 
Central Government for a medium term period of 5- 7 years or a long term 
period of 12-15 years or for such period as may be decided from time to time 
by the C entral Government . Government of India has discontinued 
mobilization of MLTGD, including renewals, with effect from March 26, 2025. 
 
vi. Nominated bank – A Scheduled Commercial Bank authorized by RBI to 
import gold under the extant Foreign Trade Policy. 
 
vii. Refiners – The refineries accredited by the National Accreditation Board for 
Testing and Calibration Laboratories  (NABL) and notified by the Central  
Government for the purpose of handling gold deposited and redeemed under 
GMS. 
 
                                                           
1 Inserted vide circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 2021.

[Page 3]
3 
 
viii. Scheme - Gold Monetization Scheme, 2015 which includes Revamped Gold 
Deposit Scheme (R-GDS) and Revamped Gold Metal Loan Scheme (R-GML). 
 
ix. Short Term Bank Deposit (STBD) - The deposit of gold made under the 
GMS with a designated bank for a short term period of 1-3 years.

[Page 4]
4 
 
 
 
Chapter II 
Revamped Gold Deposit Scheme (R-GDS) 
2.1 Basic features 
2.1.1 General 
i. This scheme will replace the existing Gold Deposit Scheme, 1999.  
However, the deposits outstanding under the Gold Deposit Scheme will 
be allowed to run till maturity unless these are withdrawn by the 
depositors prematurely as per existing instructions.    
ii. All designated banks will be eligible to implement the scheme. 
iii. The Principal on STBD and MLTGD shall be denominated in gold. 
However, the interest on STBD and MLTGD shall be calculated in Indian 
Rupees with reference to the value of gold at the time of deposit.2  
iv. Persons eligible to make a deposit - Resident Indians [Individuals, HUFs, 
Proprietorship & Partnership firms 3, Trusts including Mutual 
Funds/Exchange Traded Funds registered under  SEBI (Mutual Fund) 
Regulations, Companies, charitable institutions, Central Government,  
State Government or any other entity owned by Central Government or 
State Government]4 can make deposits under the scheme. Joint deposits 
of two or more eligible depositors are also allowed under  the scheme and 
the deposit in such case shall  be credited to the joint deposit a ccount 
opened in the name of such depositors . The existing rules regarding joint 
operation of bank deposit accounts including nominations will be 
applicable to these gold deposits.  
v. All deposits under the scheme shall be made at the CPTC/GMCTA 5.  
Provided that6, at their discretion, banks may accept the deposit of gold at 
the designated branches, especially from the larger depositors.  Banks 
shall ha ve a Board approved policy to identify the branches that can 
                                                           
2 Modified vide circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 2021. Before amendment, it read as 
“The principal and interest on STBD shall be denominated in gold”.  
3 Inserted vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.74/23.67.001/2015-16 dated January 21, 2016. 
4 Inserted vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.19 /23.67.001/2018-19 dated January 9, 2019. 
5 Inserted vide circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 2021 and will be used in the MD 
along with CPTC and refiner wherever appropriate. 
6 Replaced the word “however”.

[Page 5]
5 
 
accept the deposits under the scheme. The policy shall inter -alia cover 
the processes involved in the identification of such branches and skill 
development of the dealing employees. The policy shall also identify the 
minimum number of branches as designated branches in every State/UT 
where the bank has a presence.7 
Provided further that banks may, at their discretion, also allow the 
depositors to deposit their gold directly with the refiners that have facilities 
to carry out final assaying and to issue the deposit receipts of the 
standard gold of 995 fineness to the depositor.8 
 
vi. I nterest on deposits under the scheme will start accruing from the date of 
conversion of gold deposited into tradable gol d bars after refinement or 
30 days after the receipt of g old at the CPTC /GMCTA or the bank’s 
designated branch, as the case may be, whichever is earlier. 
vii. During the period commencing from the date of receipt of gold by the 
CPTC/GMCTA or the designated branch, as the case may be, to the date 
on which interest starts accruing in the deposit, the gold accepted by the 
CPTC/GMCTA or the designated branch of the bank shall be treated as 
an item in safe custody held by the designated bank.   
viii. On the day the gold de posited under the scheme starts accruing interest , 
the designated banks shall translate the gold liabilities and assets in 
Indian Rupees by crossing the London AM fixing for Gold / USD rate with 
the Rupee-US Dollar reference rate announced by Financial Benchmarks 
India Private Limited (FBIL) 9 on that day. The prevalent custom duty for 
import of gold will be added to the above value to arrive at the final value 
of gold. This approach will also be followed for valuation of gold at any 
subsequent valuation dat es and for the conversion of gold into Indian 
Rupees under the Scheme.  
ix. Designated banks shall inform the RBI of their decision to participate in 
the Scheme as soon as the policy to implement the scheme is approved 
by their Board. They shall also report to  the RBI the gold mobilized under 
the scheme by all branches in a consolidated manner on a monthly basis 
                                                           
7 Modified vide Circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 2021.  
8 Inserted vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.74/23.67.001/2015-16 dated January 21, 2016. 
9 Modified vide Circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 2021.

[Page 6]
6 
as per the format given in the Annex-2 .10 Designated banks shall furnish 
the statement giving details of redemption due in next three months, as 
per format given in the Annex-3. The information in Annex 2 and 3 shall 
be furnished to Department of Regulation, Reserve Bank of India, 
Mumbai by 7th day of the month.11 
x. Tax i
mplications on GMS shall be as notified by the Central Government
from time to time.12
xi. The quan
tity of gold will be expressed up to three decimals of a gram.13
xii. Al
l designated banks shall give adequate publicity to the Scheme through
their branches, websites and other channels.14
2.1.2 
Acceptance of deposits 
i. The m
inimum deposit at any one time shall be 1015 grams of raw gold
(bars, coins, jewellery excluding stones and other metals) . There is no
maximum limit for deposit under the scheme.
ii. All gold deposits under the scheme, whether tendered at the
CPTC/GMCTA or t he designated branches , shall be  assayed at
CPTC/GMCTA:
Provided that the designated banks are free not to subject the standard
good delivery gold accepted directly at branches to fire assaying at the
CPTC/GMCTA.
2.2 Types of deposits 
There shall be two different gold deposit schemes as under: 
2.2.1 Short Term Bank Deposit (STBD) 
i. All provisions of para 2.1.1 above shall apply to this deposit.
ii. The short term deposits shall be treated as bank’s on- balance sheet liability.
These deposits will be made with the designated banks for a short period of 1-
10 Modified vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.74/23.67.001/2015-16 dated January 21, 2016. Before amendment, it 
read as “Reporting – The designated banks need to submit a monthly report on GMS to the RBI in the 
prescribed format.” Annex-2 also modified vide circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 
2021.   
11 Inserted vide Circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 2021. 
12 Inserted vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.74/23.67.001/2015-16 dated January 21, 2016. 
13 Inserted vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.74/23.67.001/2015-16 dated January 21, 2016. 
14 Inserted vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.13/23.67.001/2019-20 dated August 16, 2019. 
15 Modified vide Circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 2021.

[Page 7]
7 
 
3 years (with a facility of roll over). Deposits can also be allowed for broken 
periods (e.g.  1 year 3 months; 2 years 4 months 5 days; etc.). The rate of 
interest payable in the case of deposits for maturities with broken periods shall 
be calculated as the sum of interest for the completed year plus interest for 
the number of remaining days at the rate of D/360*ARI 
 
        Where, ARI = Annual Rate of Interest 
                       D = Number of days16 
iii. The deposit will attract CRR and SLR requirements as per applicable 
instructions of RBI from the date of credit of the amount to the deposit 
account. However, the stock of gold held by banks in their books will be an 
eligible asset for meeting the SLR requirement in terms of RBI Master Circular 
- Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) and Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) dated 1 July 
2015. Further, borrowing of gold by designated banks (from gold mobilised 
under STBD by other designated banks) will be treated as interbank liabilities 
and hence exempted from CRR and SLR.17 
iv. The designated banks may, at their discretion, allow whole or part premature 
withdrawal of the deposit subject to such minimum lock -in period and 
penalties, if any, as may be determined by them.  
v. The designated banks are free to fix the interest rates on these deposits. The 
interest shall be credited in the deposit accounts on the respective due dates 
and will be withdrawable periodically or at maturity as per the terms of the 
deposit.  
vi. With effect from April 5, 2021, interest in respect of STBD shall be 
denominated and paid in Indian Rupee only. Redemption of principal at 
maturity will, at the option of depositor, be either in Indian Rupee equivalent of 
the deposited gold based on the prevailing price of gold at the time of 
redemption, or in gold. The option in this regard shall be obtained in writing 
from the depositor at the time of making the deposit and shall be irrevocable. 
Any premature redemption shall be in Indian Rupee equivalent or gold at the 
                                                           
16 Modified vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC. 109 /23.67.001/2017-18 dated June 7, 2018. Before amendment, it read 
as “The deposit will be made with the designated banks for a short term period of 1 -3 years (with a roll over in 
multiples of one year) and will be treated as their on-balance sheet liability.” 
17 Inserted vide Circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 2021.

[Page 8]
8 
 
discretion of the designated banks. All STBDs made prior to the issue of this 
direction will continue to be governed by their existing terms and conditions.18 
2.2.2    Medium and Long Term Government Deposit (MLTGD) 
i. All provisions of guidelines at para 2.1 above will apply to this deposit. 
 
ii. The deposit under this category will be accepted by the designated banks on 
behalf of the Central Government. The receipts issued by the CPTC /GMCTA 
and the deposit certificate  issued by the designated banks shall state this 
clearly. The mobilization of a deposit under this category, including renewal, 
has been discontinued with effect from March 26, 2025. The MLTGD as on 
March 25, 2025 (read with para 2.3 below) will continue to be governed by the 
relevant provisions of this Direction. 
iii. This deposit will not be reflected in the balance sheet of the designated banks.  
It will be the liability of Central Government and the designated banks will hold 
this gold deposit on behalf of Central Government until it is transferred to such 
person as may be determined by the Central Government.     
iv. Other features of the Medium and Long Term Government Deposit (MLTGD) 
shall be as under:19 
(a) Maturity 
20The Medium Term Government Deposit (MTGD) can be made for 5 -7 years 
and Long Term Government Deposit (LTGD) for 12-15 years or for such period 
as may be decided by the Central Government from time to time. Deposits can 
also be allowed for broken periods (e.g.  5 years 7 months; 13 years 4 months 
15 days; etc.). 
(b) Rate of interest:  
• The rate of interest on such deposit will be decided by Central 
Government and notified by Reserve Bank of India from time to time. 
                                                           
18 Modified vide Circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 2021. 
19 Inserted vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.109 /23.67.001/2017-18 dated June 7, 2018. 
20 Modified vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.74/23.67.001/2015 -16 dated January 21, 2016. Before amendment, it 
read as “The deposit can be made for a medium term period of 5 -7 years or a long term period of 12 -15 years 
or for such period as may be deci ded from time to time by the Central Government. The rate of interest of 
such deposit will be decided by Central Government and notified by Reserve Bank of India from time to time. 
The designated banks may allow whole or part premature withdrawal of the deposit subject to such minimum 
lock-in period and penalties, if any, as determined by the Central Government.”

[Page 9]
9 
 
The current rate of interest as notified by the Central Government are as 
under: 
 
(i) On medium term deposit   – 2.25% p.a. 
(ii) On long term deposit         – 2.50% p.a. 
• The rate of interest payable in the case of deposits for maturities with 
broken periods shall be calculated as the sum of interest for the 
complete year plus interest for the number of remaining days at the rate 
of D/360*ARI 
    Where, ARI = Annual Rate of Interest 
          D = Number of days 
(c) The periodicity of interest payment 
The periodicity of interest payment on these deposits is annual and shall be 
paid on 31 st March every year. A depositor will have an option to receive 
payment of simple interest annually or cumulative interest at the time of 
maturity, in which case it will be compounded annually. This option shall be 
exercised at the time of deposit.  
 
(d) Minimum lock-in period 
A Medium Term Government Deposit (MTGD) is allowed to be withdrawn 
any time after 3 years and a Long Term Government Deposit (LTGD) after 
5 years. 
 
(e) Interest on premature withdrawal 
The amount payable to the depositor on premature withdrawal after lock -in 
period shall be calculated as a sum of (A) and (B), as indicated below: 
 
(A)  Actual market value of the gold deposit on the day of withdrawal. 
 (B)  Interest payable on the value of the gold at the time of deposit as under.21 
Type of 
deposit 
Lock-in 
period 
(years) 
Actual period for which the deposit has run (years) 
>3 and < 5 ≥5 and < 7 
MTGD 3 Applicable rate for MTGD at 
the time of deposit minus 
0.375% 
Applicable rate for MTGD 
at the time of deposit  
minus 0.25% 
 
                                                           
21 An illustration of the  interest calculation as under: 
Type of 
deposit 
Lock-in period 
(years) 
Actual period for which the deposit has run (years) 
>3 and < 5 ≥5 and < 7 
MTGD Position as on 
date 
2.250%-0.375% = 1.875% 2.250%-0.250% = 2.00% 
  >5 and < 7 ≥ 7 and < 12 ≥12 and < 15 
LTGD Position as on 
date 
2.250%-0.250% = 
2.00% 
2.500%-
0.375%=2.125% 
2.500%-0.250%=2.25%

[Page 10]
10 
 
Type of 
deposit 
Lock-in 
period 
(years) 
Actual period for which the deposit has run (years) 
>5 and < 7 ≥ 7 and < 12 ≥12 and < 15 
LTGD 5 Applicable rate 
for MTGD at the 
time of deposit 
minus 0.25% 
Applicable rate 
for LTGD at the 
time of deposit 
minus 0.375% 
Applicable rate 
for LTGD at the 
time of deposit 
minus 0.25% 
 
(f) Interest on premature closure of the deposit in case of death of depositor 
before and after lock-in period 
The amount payable to the depositor shall be calculated as a sum  of (A) 
and (B), as indicated below: 
(A) Actual market value of the gold deposit on the day of withdrawal. 
(B) Interest payable on the value of the gold for the period of deposit at the 
applicable rate. 
(i) Before lock-in period: The applicable interest rate shall be as under:  
Type of 
Deposit 
Lock-in 
period 
Actual period for which the deposit has run 
Up to 6 
months 
>6 months and 
<1 year 
≥1 year and <2 
years 
≥2 years and 
<3 years 
MTGD 3 years  No 
interest 
Applicable rate 
for MTGD at the 
time of deposit 
minus 1.25% 
Applicable rate 
for MTGD at the 
time of deposit 
minus 1.00% 
Applicable rate 
for MTGD at 
the time of 
deposit minus 
0.75% 
 
Type of 
Deposit 
Lock-in 
period 
Actual period for which the deposit has run 
Up to 1 
year 
>1 year and <2 
years 
≥2 years and 
<3 years 
≥3 years and 
<5 years 
LTGD 5 years No 
interest 
Applicable rate 
for MTGD at the 
time of deposit 
minus 1.00% 
Applicable rate 
for MTGD at the 
time of deposit 
minus 0.75% 
Applicable rate 
for MTGD at 
the time of 
deposit minus 
0.25% 
 
(ii) After lock-in period: The applicable interest rate shall be as under:  
Type of 
deposit 
Lock-in 
period 
Actual period for which the deposit has run 
>3 years and < 5 years ≥5 years and < 7 years 
MTGD 3 years Applicable rate for MTGD 
at the time of deposit 
minus 0.25% 
Applicable rate for MTGD 
at        the time of deposit 
minus 0.125%

[Page 11]
11 
 
 
Type of 
deposit 
Lock-in 
period 
Actual period for which the deposit has run 
>5 years and < 7 
years 
≥ 7 years and < 
12 years 
≥12 years and < 
15 years 
LTGD 5 years Applicable rate 
for MTGD at the  
time of deposit 
minus 0.125% 
Applicable rate 
for LTGD at the 
time of deposit 
minus 0.25% 
Applicable rate for 
LTGD at the time 
of deposit minus  
0.125% 
 
(g) Interest on premature closure of the deposit due to default of loan taken against 
MLTGD before and after lock-in period 
The amount payable to the depositor shall be calculated as a sum  of (A) 
and (B), as indicated below: 
(A) Actual market value of the gold deposit on the day of withdrawal. 
(B) Interest payable on the value of the gold for the period of deposit at the 
applicable rate. 
(i) Before lock-in period: The applicable interest rate shall be as under:  
Type of 
Deposit 
Lock-in 
period 
Actual period for which the deposit has run 
Up to 6 
months 
>6 months 
and <1 year 
≥1 year and 
<2 years 
≥2 years and 
<3 years 
MTGD 3 years No 
interest 
Applicable rate 
for MTGD at 
the time of 
deposit minus 
1.375% 
Applicable rate 
for MTGD at 
the time of 
deposit minus 
1.125% 
Applicable 
rate for MTGD 
at the time of 
deposit minus 
0.875% 
 
Type of 
Deposit 
Lock-
in 
period 
Actual period for which the deposit has run 
Up to 1 
year 
>1 year and <2 
years 
≥2 years and 
<3 years 
≥3 years and 
<5 years 
LTGD 5 years No 
interest 
Applicable rate 
for MTGD at the 
time of deposit 
minus 1.125% 
Applicable rate 
for MTGD at the 
time of deposit 
minus 0.875% 
Applicable rate 
for MTGD at 
the time of 
deposit minus 
0.375% 
 
(ii) After lock-in period: The applicable interest rate shall be as under:  
Type of deposit Lock-in 
period 
Actual period for which the deposit has run 
>3 years and < 5 years ≥5 years and < 7 years 
MTGD 3 years Applicable rate for MTGD 
at the time of deposit 
minus 0.375% 
Applicable rate for 
MTGD at        the time of 
deposit minus 0.25%

[Page 12]
12 
 
 
Type of 
deposit 
Lock-in 
period 
Actual period for which the deposit has run 
>5 years and < 7 
years 
≥ 7 years and < 12 
years 
≥12 years and < 15 
years 
LTGD 5 years Applicable rate for 
MTGD at the time 
of deposit minus 
0.25% 
Applicable rate for 
LTGD at the time 
of deposit minus 
0.375% 
Applicable rate for 
LTGD at the time of 
deposit minus  
0.25% 
 
v. The gold received under MLTGD will be auctioned by the agencies notified by 
Government and the sale proceeds will be credited to Government’s account 
held with RBI.  
vi. The details of auctioning and the accounting procedure will be notified by 
Government of India. 
vii. 22Central Government has decided that with effect from November 5, 2016,  
designated banks will be paid handling charges (including gold purity testing,  
refining, transportation, storage and any other relevant costs) for a new 
MLTGD at a  flat rate of 1.5% and commission at the rate of 1% of the rupee 
equivalent of the amount of gold mobilized under the scheme until deposits are 
accepted.23 In case of renewal of deposits  on or before March 25, 2025, as 
banks will not incur any expenses on purity testing, refining, transportation, 
storage and insurance etc., the banks will only be given a fixed commission of 
1% of the rupee equivalent of the amount of gold on the date of renewal 
towards their administrative and account maintenance cost. 
Explanation: For the purpose of computing the charges and commission payable to 
banks, the rupee equivalent of the gold deposited shall be calculated based on the 
price of gold prevailing at the time of deposit. 
2.3 Opening of gold deposit accounts 
The opening of gold deposit accounts shall be subject to the same rules with regard 
to customer identification as are applicable to any other deposit account. D epositors 
who do not already have a ny other account with the designated bank, shall open a 
gold deposit account wi th the designated banks with zero balance at any time prior 
                                                           
22 Inserted vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.74/23.67.001/2015-16 dated January 21, 2016. 
23 Modified vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.109/23.67.001/2017-18 dated June 7, 2018.

[Page 13]
13 
to tendering gold at the CPTC /GMCTA after complying with KYC norms as 
prescribed by Reserve Bank of India.  
The designated banks will credit the STBD or MLTGD, as the case may be, with the 
amount of 995 fineness gold as indicated in the advice received from CPTC/GMCTA, 
after 30 days of receipt of gold at the CPTC /GMCTA, regardless of whether the 
depositor submits the receipt for issuance of the deposit certificate or not ; provided 
that in case of MLTGD, the deposit receipt issued by CPTC/GMCTA is dated on or before 
March 25, 2025. 
2.4 Guidelines for Redemption of MLTGD 
i. General
a. The redemption of principal at maturity shall, at the option of the depositor,  
be either i
n Indian Rupee equivalent of the value of deposited gold at the 
time of redemption, or in gold. However, any premature redemption of  
MLTGD s
hall be only in INR. The designated bank  shall seek the option of  
collecting maturing proceeds in gold or in Indian Rupee equivalent from the  
depositor a
t the time of initial deposit. Additionally, nominee details along 
with their share in the maturity proceeds may also be ascertained by the  
bank at the time of opening the account. In case of existing accounts,  
designated banks s
hall ensure the availability of the aforementioned 
information and submit a compliance report to RBI within six months from  
the 
date of issue of these directions.
b. The interest accrued on MLTGD shall be calculated with reference to Indian  
Rupee 
equivalent of value of gold at the time of deposit and will be paid  
only in INR.
c. Designated banks shall inform the depositors about redemption through 
letter a
nd other means (suc h as SMS, email, phone call etc. wherever  
details ar
e available), at least 120 days pr ior to redemption date and ask  
them t
o submit their response within 30 days  on their preference for  
redemption. 
The bank, in its communication, should include a list of its  
state-wise branches  where the facility of redemption in gold is available 
while also clearly s
pecifying the additional administrative charges  to be  
borne by t
he depositor for redemption in gold. In its communication to the  
depositor, the bank  shall ask for option on re demption in gold or i n INR  
(only for depositors who sought redemption in gold at the time of deposit),  
along w
ith the name of the branch from where the depositor will collect the  
gold, as
 applicable.
d. The depositor shall be required to present the original deposit certificate  
issued by 
the corresponding designated bank for redemption/ premature  
closure of the  MLTGD.
e. In case of redemption in INR, if the original saving/current account provided  
to the bank at the time of deposit is not operational, the depositor s hall 
provide details o
f the alternate saving/current account to the concerned  
bank.

[Page 14]
14 
 
f. Deposits ma turing on non -business day shall  be redeemed on the next 
working day without any interest for the intervening period. 
g. In case a deposit is not redeemed on the due date, or the deposit certificate 
is presented for redemption after due date, no interest shall be paid on the 
outstanding deposit for the period overdue. 
h. The renewal of MLTGD has been discontinued with effect from March 26, 
2025. The renewal of deposits with retrospective effect shall  not be 
allowed. 
i. The excess interest paid in case of premature closure can either be 
adjusted from the principal amount at the time of repayment or should be 
recovered separately from the customer by crediting the full principal 
amount at the time of redemption. 
j. Designated banks shall pay the amount due at redemption to the 
depositors on the due date, incur redemption expenses, if applicable and 
subsequently raise claim to the Government of India through Reserve Bank 
of India. 
k. Notwithstanding the procedures and timelines laid down through these 
guidelines, RBI may issue instructions to banks keeping in mind the 
practical considerations of banks and the concerns of the depositors. 
ii. Redemption in Gold   
a. The quantity of gold shall be payable in multiples of 10 grams and the 
remaining fraction of gold shall be payable in INR (principal along with 
interest). With regards to fractional quantity, for example 37.103 grams gold 
deposit, fractional quantity is 7.103 grams which is less than 10 grams, 
needs to be paid in INR at the prevailing gold rate on the maturity date. The 
applicable prevailing rate will be governed by provisions at para 2.1.1 of 
this Master Direction. 
b. In case of redemption of deposit in gold, the administrative charge at a rate 
of 0.5% 24 of the notional redemption amount as on the maturity date in 
terms of INR will be collected from the depositor and paid to the designated 
banks to cover logistical and operational costs involved in redemption. 
These administrative charges may be adjusted against the payment of 
fractional quantity in INR. If this amount is not found sufficient, then the 
administrative charges may be adjusted against the interest payable to the 
depositor or may be recovered in cash from the depositor.  
c. If the depositor does not indicate any choice for mode of redemption (gold 
or INR) to the bank in response to its 120- day prior communication (issued 
as at para 2.4.i. (c) above), the option indicated at the time of account 
opening will prevail. Further, in case the gold is not redeemed by the 
customer on the maturity date, such stock will continue to be  kept in the 
custody of the bank for a maximum period of 60 days. If the depositor does 
not redeem the deposit on the due date or within 60 days from the maturity 
date, the redemption will automatically be made in INR and the money shall 
                                                           
24  The administrative charge has been revised from 0.2% to 0.5% vide Circular DoR.AUT.REC.58/23.67.001/2022- 23 dated 
August 04, 2022. However, all deposits prior to this date will continue to be governed by the 0.2% (of the notional 
redemption amount as on the maturity date in terms of INR) administrative charge in case of redemption in gold.

[Page 15]
15 
 
be credited in the linked saving/current account of the depositor in the 
concerned bank. In case of non- availability of an active bank account, the 
banks will report the same to RBI, on priority.    
d. The payment of interest in case of cumulative deposit shall be calculated 
with reference to Indian Rupee equivalent of value of gold at the time of 
deposit.  
e. Arrangement of gold by the designated bank:  
(i) Each bank shall maintain the stock of gold, at least equivalent to the 
gold redemption due in next 3 months, out of the gold mobilised under 
MLTGD till March 25, 2025. In case of non-availability of sufficient gold 
for redemption, the bank shall bring it to the notice of Government of 
India through the Reserve Bank at least 3 months in advance.  
(ii) Surplus MLTGD gold with one bank can be transferred to another bank 
to meet MLTGD redemption. This inter -bank transfer of gold will not be 
treated as inter -bank lending by banks. Banks may also be allowed to 
purchase India Good Delivery Standard (IGDS) gold/LGDS (LBMA’s 
Good Delivery Standard) gold bars from the local refineries empaneled 
with the banks or MMTC and can get reimbursement from Government 
of India. 
(iii) In case sufficient gold is not available with any bank for redemption, 
RBI will bring it to the notice of Government of India at least 3 months 
prior to the date of redemption and an appropriate decision on sourcing 
of gold shall be taken by the Government.  
iii. Redemption in INR – Modalities 
In case of redemption in INR, the depositor may furnish the original deposit 
certificate with his account details in any GMS b ranch of the bank and his account 
will be credited accordingly. 
 
2.5   Collection and Purity Testing Centres 
i The Central Government will notify the list of BIS certified CPTC / Refiners under 
the Scheme and shall be communicated  to the banks through Indian Banks’ 
Association (IBA).25
 
ii T he designated banks will be free to select and authorize the CPTCs out of the  
list notified by the Central Government for handling gold as their agents based 
on their assessment of the credit worthiness of these centres. (Please see para 
2.8 for tripartite agreement among banks, refineries and CPTCs). 
iii The designated banks shall take steps to enter into agreement with sufficient 
number of CPTCs.26 
                                                           
25 Modified vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.74/23.67.001/2015-16 dated January 21, 2016. Before amendment, it 
read as “The Central Government will notify a list of BIS certified CPTCs under the Scheme.”

[Page 16]
16 
 
iv Each designated bank authorizing a CPTC to collect deposit of gold on its behalf 
shall ensure that its name is included in the list of such banks displayed by the 
CPTC.  
v The schedule of fees charged by the CPTC s shall be displayed at a prominent 
place at the centre. 
vi  Before tendering the raw gold to a CPTC, the depositor shall indicate the name 
of the designated bank with whom he would like to place the deposit.27 
vii  After assaying the gold, the CPTC will issue a receipt signed by authorised 
signatories of the centre showing the standard gold of 995 f ineness on behalf of 
the designated bank indicated by the depositor.  Simultaneously, the CPTC will 
also send an advice to the designated bank regarding the acceptance of deposit. 
viii The 995 fineness equivalent amount of gold as determined by the CPTC will be 
final and any difference in quantity or quality found after issuance of the receipt 
by the CPTC including at the level of the refinery due to refinement or any other 
reason shall be settled among the three parties viz., the CPTC , the refiner  and 
the designated bank in accordance with the terms of the tripartite agreement.   
ix The depositor shall  produce the receipt showing the 995 fineness equivalent 
amount of gold issued by the CPTC to the designated bank branch, either in 
person or through post. 
x On submission of the deposit receipt by the depositor, t he designated bank shall 
issue the final deposit certificate on the same day or 30 days after the date of the 
tendering of gold at the CPTC, whichever is later.  
xi The assaying process at the CPTC is described in Annex-1. 
2.6 GMS Mobilisation, Collection & Testing Agent (GMCTA)28 
i. Jewellers/Refiners certified as CPTCs by BIS and meeting additional eligibility 
conditions set by IBA may be recognised by designated banks as GMCTA. 
                                                                                                                                                                                     
26 Inserted vide Circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 2021. 
27 The Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) has agreed to  design appropriate standard documentations in 
connection with the GMS including application form for tendering raw gold to the assaying centres , description 
of the physical appearance and other characteristics of the gold, the recording of the results of XRF by the 
assaying centre, customer’s consent for melting the gold for fire -assaying, customer’s consent for making the 
final deposit, the Final Receipt to be issued to the depositor and any other documents that may be considered 
by the banks. The entire set of documents should be made available to the depositor upfront and should 
include all the terms and conditions of the scheme including the schedule of charges. The documentation 
should be posted on IBA’s website and should also be available in physical form at the CPTCs.     
28 Inserted vide Circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 2021.

[Page 17]
17 
 
ii. Jewellers or refiners functioning as GMCTA shall assay and refine gold received 
from depositors; undertake vaulting and movement of refined gold to banks as 
per bi-partite agreement with the designated banks. 
iii. As GMCTAs will carry out functions of CPTC, the instructions applicable  to 
CPTCs as mentioned at para 2.5 above shall also be applicable to GMCTA. 
iv. The designated banks shall pay a maximum of 1.5% as incentive/handling 
charges to the gold handling/ mobilizing functions performed by GMCTAs. 
 
2.7 Transfer of gold to the Refiners 
 
i. The d esignated banks will be free to select the refiners (list  notified by  
Government is attached) based on their assessment regarding the credi bility of 
these entities. 
ii. The CPTCs will transfer the gold to the refiners  as per the terms and conditions 
set out in the tripartite agreement. 
iii. The refined gold may, at the option of the designated bank , be kept in the vaults 
maintained by the refiners, GMCTAs or at the branch itself.  
iv. For the services provided by the refiners /GMCTAs, the designated banks will 
pay a fee as decided mutually. 
v. The refiners/GMCTAs shall not collect any charge from the depositor. 
 
2.8   Tripartite agreement between the designated banks, refiners and CPTCs 
 
i. Every designated bank shall enter into a legally binding tripartite agreement with 
the refiners and CPTCs with whom they tie up under the Scheme. 
ii. The agreement shall clearly lay down the details regarding payment of fees, 
services to be provided, standards of service, the details of the arrangement 
regarding movement of gold and rights and obligations of all the three parties in 
connection with the operation of the Scheme. 
iii. The tripartite agreement shall have enabling provision for direct deposit of gold 
with the refineries as well. In the alternate, banks shall enter into bipartite 
agreements with the refiners /GMCTAs, stating out the terms of that 
arrangements besides the tripartite agreement.29 
 
2.9  Utilization of gold mobilized under GMS 
2.9.1 Gold accepted under STBD   
                                                           
29 Inserted vide Circular DBR.IBD.BC.74/23.67.001/2015-16 dated January 21, 2016

[Page 18]
18 
 
Without prejudice to the generality of the uses of the gold mobilised under the STBD , 
the designated banks may                    
i. sell the gold to MMTC for minting India Gold Coins (IGC), to jewellers and to 
other designated banks participating in GMS; or 
ii. l end the gold under the GML scheme to MMTC for minting India Gold Coin s 
(IGC) and to jewellers. 
iii. Lend the gold to other designated banks participating in the Scheme for granting 
GML subject to following conditions: 
(a) Interest Rate: The interest rate to be charged on interbank lending of gold 
mobilised from these deposits shall be decided by banks.  
(b) Repayment: The repayment shall be in INR or in locally sourced IGDS/ 
LGDS (LBMA’s Good Delivery Standards) gold as agreed by the participating 
banks. 
(c) Tenor: As the purpose for interbank lending is to provide gold to jewellery 
manufacturers/ jewellery exporters under GML, the tenor of interbank lending of 
gold shall be as per our circular DBOD.No.IBD.BC.71/23.67.001/2006- 07 dated 
April 3, 2007, the Foreign Trade Policy and the Handbook of Procedures issued 
by DGFT, as amended from time to time. 30 
2.9.2   Gold accepted under MLTGD 
i. Gold deposited under MLTGD will be auctioned by MMTC or any other 
agency authorized by the Central Government and the sale proceeds credited 
to the Central Government’s account with RBI. 
ii. The entities participating in the auction may include RBI, MMTC, banks and 
any other entities notified by the Central Government in this regard. 
iii. Gold purchased by designated bank under the auction may be utili zed by 
them for any purposes indicated at para 2.9.1. above. 
 
2.10   Risk management 
 
i. The d esignated banks are allowed to access the International 
Exchanges, London Bullion Market Association or make use of Over -the-
counter contracts to hedge exposures to bullion prices subject to the 
guidelines issued by RBI. 
                                                           
30 Inserted vide Circular DoR.AUT.REC.2/23.67.001/2021-22 dated April 5, 2021.

[Page 19]
19 
 
ii. The designated banks should put in place suitable risk management 
mechanisms including appropriate limits to manage the risk arising from 
gold price movements in respect of their net exposure to gold. 
 
2.11   Oversight over the CPTCs, GMCTAs and Refineries 
 
i. The Central Government, in consultation with BIS, NABL, RBI and IBA, 
may put in place appropriate supervisory mechanism over the CPTCs, 
GMCTAs and the refiners so as to ensure observance of the standards 
set out for these centres by Government (BIS and NABL).  
ii. The Central Government may take appropriate action including levy of 
penalties against the non-compliant CPTCs, GMCTAs and refiners.  
iii. The Central Government may  also put in place appropriate grievance 
redress mechanism regarding any depositor’s complaints  against the 
CPTCs and GMCTAs. 
iv. The complaints against  the designated banks regarding any 
discrepancy in issuance of receipts and deposit certificates , 
redemption of deposits, payment of interest will be handled first by the 
bank’s grievance redress process and then by the Banking 
Ombudsman of RBI.  
                                
Chapter III 
GMS - linked Gold Metal Loan (GML) Scheme 
 
3.1.1 General 
 
i. The gold mobilized under STBD may be provided to the jewellers as 
GML. The designated banks can also purchase the gold auctioned under 
MLTGD and extend GML to the jewellers.  
                                                                                                    
ii. The jeweller s will re ceive the physical delivery of gold either from the 
refiners or from the designated bank, depending on the place where the 
refined gold is stored. 
 
 
iii. The existing Gold (Metal) Loan (GML) Scheme operated by nominated 
banks in terms of paragraph 2.3.12 of the  RBI Master Circular on Loans 
and Advances - Statutory and Other Restrictions  dated July 1, 2015 will 
continue in parallel with GMS -linked GML scheme. All prudential 
guidelines for the existing  GML Scheme as prescribed in  the Master

[Page 20]
20 
 
Circular as amended from time to time will also be applicable to the new 
Scheme. 
 
iv. The designated banks other than the nominated banks shall be eligible 
to import gold only for redemption of the gold deposits mobilised under 
the STBD.

[Page 21]
21 
 
 
 
3.1.2 Interest to be charged  
 
The designated banks are free to determine the interest rate to be charged on GMS-
linked GML. 
 
3.1.3 Tenor 
The tenor of GMS-linked GML will be the same as under the extant GML scheme.

[Page 22]
22 
 
 
Annex 1 
Assaying process at the CPTCs/GMCTAs 
i. The fees to be charged by a CPTC/GMCTA shall be informed to the customer 
before doing the XRF test. 
ii. There will be a BIS certified protocol of operations and processes at all stages 
of purity verification and deposit of gold which are as under: 
 
 
a. XRF machine- test and weighing of all articles shall be done in the 
presence of the customer and will be recorded by CCTV Camera. 
b. After XRF test, the customer will be given the option to disagree with the 
preliminary test or withdraw the tendered gold or he will give his consent 
for melting and fire assay test. 
c. On receipt of the customer consent, the gold ornaments will be cleaned 
of its dirt, studs, meena etc. and thereafter, the purity of the tendered 
gold will be ascertained through a fire assay test in the presence of the 
customer. 
d. In case the customer agrees with the result of the fire assay test, he will 
exercise his option to deposit the gold with the bank and in that case the 
fee charged by the centre will be paid by the bank. However, in case of 
any disagreement with the fire assay result, the customer will be given 
the option to take back the melted gold after paying a nominal fee to the 
centre.  
e. In case the customer exercises the option to deposit the gold,  he will be 
provided a certificate by the CPTC /GMCTA certifying the weight of the 
gold tendered in equivalence of 995 fineness of gold.  
f. On receipt of this certificate from the customer, the bank will credit the 
equivalent quantity of Standard gold of 995 fineness in to the depositor’s 
account. 
g. Simultaneously, t he CPTC/GMCTA has also to i nform the bank about 
the details of the deposit made by the customer.

[Page 23]
Annex- 2 
GMS MONTHLY STATEMENT 
Short Term Bank Deposit (STBD) 
 
A. Gold mobilized under STBD during the month (based on gold deposit intimation received from CPTC/GMCTA) 
Sl No. Detail of depositors No. of depositors Quantity of gold (weight in grams) 
1. Opening balance   
2. Addition during the month   
a) Individual/HUF   
b) MF/Gold ETFs   
c) Other Trusts (e.g. Temples)   
d) Others   
3. Redemption   
a) Individual /HUF   
b) MF/GOLD ETF   
c) Other Trusts (e.g. Temples)   
d) Others   
4. Premature Withdrawal   
a) Individual /HUF   
b) MF/GOLD ETF   
c) Other Trusts (e.g. Temples)   
d) Others   
5. Closing Balance

[Page 24]
B) Deployment of gold mobilised during the month (Weight in grams) 
1. Opening balance  
2. Deployment during the month  
a) Sale to other designated banks  
b) Sale to jewellers  
c) Sale to MMTC for minting India Gold Coins (IGC)  
d) Loan to MMTC for minting IGC  
e) Loan to domestic jewellers  
f ) Loan to jewellery exporter  
3. Less repayments/premature withdrawal during the 
month 
 
4. Closing balance  
 
 
C. GMS linked Gold Metal Loan 
Lending in the month Cumulative lending during the current FY GML outstanding at the end of the month 
Quantity in grams Value in ₹ Quantity in grams Value in ₹ Quantity in grams Value in ₹ 
      
 
 
D. Summary of transactions 
Total Gold mobilized under the Scheme in grams

[Page 25]
GMS Monthly Statement 
A) Gold Mobilised under MLTGD during the month 
  Gold Mobilised under Medium 
Term Deposit (5-7) years 
Gold mobilised under Long term Deposit 
(12-15) years 
Sr. No. Detail of depositors No. of 
depositors 
Weight in 
grams 
No. of depositors Weight in grams 
1. Opening balance     
2. Addition during the month     
2.1 New deposits during the month     
a. Individual / HUF     
b. MF/Gold ETFs     
c. Other Trusts (e.g. Temples)     
d. Others     
2.2 Renewals during the month     
a. Individual / HUF     
b. MF/Gold ETFs     
c. Other Trusts (e.g. Temples)     
d. Others     
3. Redemption     
a. Individual / HUF     
b. MF/Gold ETFs     
c. Other Trusts (e.g. Temples)     
d. Others     
4. Premature Withdrawal     
a. Individual / HUF     
b. MF/Gold ETFs     
c. Other Trusts (e.g. Temples)     
d. Others     
5. Closing Balance

[Page 26]
B) Auction of MLTGD gold during the month 
1. Opening Balance  
2. Auctioned during the month  
3. Closing balance  
 
 
C) Deployment of gold purchased by the bank under the auction of MLTGD during the month (Weight in grams) 
1) Opening balance  
2) Deployment during the month  
a) Sale to other designated banks  
b) Sale to jewellers  
c) Sale to MMTC for minting India Gold Coins (IGC)  
d) Loan to MMTC for minting IGC  
e) Loan to domestic jewellers  
f ) Loan to jewellery exporter  
3) Less repayments/premature withdrawal during the month  
4) Closing balance  
1) Opening balance  
2) Deployment during the month

[Page 27]
D) Redemption during the month 
  In gold (in gms) In INR (in gms) Total amount paid to 
depositors (in ₹)* 
  MTGD LTGD MTGD LTGD MTGD LTGD 
1 Cumulative redemption up to last month       
2 Premature redemption during the month       
3 Redemption on maturity during the month       
4 Cumulative redemption as on end of the 
current month 
      
* The total amount paid to depositors is sum of the value of deposits redeemed in gold and in INR. The value of deposits 
redeemed in gold may be calculated as per para 2.4.i.(a), para 2.4.i.(b) and para 2.1.1 (viii) of the MD on GMS, 2015. 
 
 
E) Summary of transactions 
Total Gold mobilized under the Scheme in grams  
Less premature withdrawal/redemption under MLTGD up to the month in grams  
Net balance of the gold mobilised under the Scheme in grams 
(shall tally with the total at A-5 of the statement) 
 
Current value of net balance of gold mobilised under MLTGD #  
# The current value of net balance of gold may be calculated as per para 2.1.1 (viii) of the MD on GMS, 2015 on the last day of 
the reporting month.

[Page 28]
Annex - 3 
Details of redemption due in next three months (based on option exercised)   
Sr. No. Month Redemption due in gold Redemption due in INR Total value in ` 
  MTGD LTGD MTGD LTGD  
  In grams Value in ` 
 
In grams Value in ` In grams Value in ` In grams Value in `  
1.            
2.            
3.            
Total          
 
The value in ` may be calculated as per para 2.1.1 (viii) of the MD on GMS, 2015 on the last day of the reporting month.
