[Page 1]
RBI/FED/2016-17/52 
FED Master Direction No.1/2016-17                                              February 22, 2017 
                                                                           (Updated as on November 28, 2025) 
(Updated as on February 29, 2024) 
To 
All Authorised Persons who are Indian Agents under the Money Transfer Service 
Scheme 
Madam / Dear Sir, 
Master Direction – Money Transfer Service Scheme (MTSS) 
Money Transfer Service Scheme (MTSS) is a quick and easy way of transferring 
personal remittances from abroad to beneficiaries in India  
2. Reserve Bank has the powers under Section 1 0(1) of the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999, to accord necessary permission (authorization) to any person 
to act as an Indian Agent under the Money Transfer Service Scheme.  
3. The directions relating to Money Transfer Service Scheme are being issued in a 
consolidated form through the Master Direction enclosed. Reporting instructions can 
be found in the Master Direction on Reporting. It may be noted that whenever 
necessary, Reserve Bank shall issue directions to Authorised Persons who are Indian 
Agents under the MTSS through A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars in regard to any change in 
the rules, regulations, notifications, directions or orders or the manner in which relative 
transactions are to be conducted by the Authorised Persons with their customers/  
constituents. The Master Direction issued herewith shall be simultaneously amended 
suitably. 
Yours faithfully, 
(N Senthil Kumar) 
Chief General Manager

[Page 2]
2 
 
 
Master Direction on Money Transfer Service Scheme 
 
1. Introduction  
1.1 Money Transfer Service Scheme (MTSS) is a quick and easy way of transferring 
personal remittances from abroad to beneficiaries in India. Only inward personal 
remittances into India such as remittances towards family maintenance and 
remittances favouring foreign tourists visiting India are permissible. No outward 
remittance from India is permissible under MTSS. The system envisages a tie- up 
between reputed money transfer companies abroad known as Overseas Principals 
and agents in India known as Indian Agents who would disburse funds to 
beneficiaries in India at ongoing exchange rates . The Indian Agents can in turn also 
appoint sub-agents to expand their network. The Indian Agent is not allowed to remit 
any amount to the Overseas Principal. Under MTSS the remitters and the 
beneficiaries are individuals only. This document covers the details regarding the 
entry norms, authorization, renewal and various operating instructions pertaining to 
the entities involved in this scheme.   
 
1.2 Statutory Basis  
In terms of the powers granted under Section 10(1) of the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act (FEMA), 1999, the Reserve Bank of India may accord necessary 
permission (authorization) to any person to act as an Indian Agent under the Money 
Transfer Service Scheme. No person can handle the business of cross-border money 
transfer to India in any capac ity unless specifically permitted to do so by the Reserve 
Bank.  
 
2. Definitions 
2.1 ‘Authorised Dealer’ (AD) means a person authorised as an authorised dealer 
under sub-section (1) of section 10 of FEMA. 
2.2 ‘Authorised Dealer (AD) Category II ’ means (i) Upgraded FFMCs; (ii) Select 
RRBs; (iii) Select UCBs; and (iv)Other entities.

[Page 3]
3 
2.3 ‘Full Fledged Money Changer ( FFMC)’ is an authorized money changer 
authorised to purchase foreign exchange from non- residents visiting India and 
residents, and to sell foreign exchange for private and business travel purposes only. 
2.4 ‘Overseas Principal’ are reputed money transfer companies  abroad entering into 
tie up with agents in India known as Indian agents who would disburse funds to 
beneficiaries in India at ongoing exchange rates. 
 
3. Guidelines for Indian Agents 
3.1 Entry Norms  
(i) The applicant to become an Indian Agent should be an Authorised Dealer 
Category-I bank or an Authorised Dealer Category -II or a Full Fledged Money 
Changer (FFMC), or a Scheduled Commercial Bank or the Department of Posts.  
(ii) The applicant should have minimum Net Owned Funds of Rs.50 lakh.  
Note:- (i) Owned Funds : - (Paid-up Equity Capital + Free reserves + Credit balance 
in Profit & Loss A/c) minus (Accumulated balance of loss, Deferred revenue 
expenditure and Other intangible assets)  
(ii) Net Owned Funds: - Owned funds minus the amount of inves tments in shares of 
its subsidiaries, companies in the same group, all (other) non- banking financial 
companies as also the book value of debentures, bonds, outstanding loans and 
advances made to and deposits with its subsidiaries and companies in the same 
group in excess of 10 per cent of the Owned funds.  
 
3.2 Procedure for making Applications to the Reserve Bank  
Application for necessary permission to act as an Indian Agent may be made  
1(through the APConnect application ( https://apconnect.rbi.org.in/entity) by non-bank 
AD Category-II and FFMCs) to the respective regional office of the Foreign Exchange 
Department of the Reserve Bank of India, under whose jurisdic tion the registered 
office of the applicant falls  and should be accompanied by the documents pertaining 
to its proposed Overseas Principal, as detailed below:  
a) A declaration to the effect that no proceedings have been initiated by / are 
pending with the Di rectorate of Enforcement (DoE) / Directorate of Revenue 
Intelligence (DRI) or any other law enforcing authorities, against the applicant 
or its directors and that no criminal cases are initiated / pending against the 
applicant or its directors.  
 
1 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.01 dated April 06, 2023

[Page 4]
4 
b) A declarat ion to the effect that proper policy framework on Know Your 
Customer (KYC) norms2/ Anti-Money Laundering (AML) standards/ Combating 
the Financing of Terrorism (CFT) , in accordance with the guidelines issued by 
Reserve Bank of India, applicable to Indian agents and their Sub- agents in 
place on obtaining permission (authorization) of the Reserve Bank and before 
commencement of money transfer operations.  
c) Name and address of the Overseas Principal with whom the MTSS will be 
conducted.  
d) Full details of the operation of the scheme by the Overseas Principal.  
e) List of branches in India and their addresses where MTSS will be conducted 
by the applicant.  
f) Estimated volume of business per month/year under the scheme.  
g) Audited Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account for the last two financial 
years of the applicant, if available or a copy of the latest audited accounts, with 
a certificate from Statutory Auditors re garding the position of the Net Owned 
Funds as on the date of application.  
h) Memorandum and Articles of Association of the applicant where either a 
provision exists for taking up money transfer business or an appropriate 
amendment thereto has been filed with the Company Law Board.  
i) Confidential Report from at least two of the applicant's bankers in sealed 
cover.  
j) Details of sister/ associated concerns of the applicant functioning in the 
financial sector.  
k) A certified copy of the board resolution for undertak ing money transfer 
business by the applicant.  
l) A letter from the proposed Overseas Principal, agreeing to enter into tie up 
with the applicant and also to provide necessary collateral.  
 
3.3 Collateral requirement  
Collateral equivalent to 3 days' average drawings or US D 50,000, whichever is 
higher, may be kept by the Overseas Principal in favour of the Indian Agent with a 
designated bank in India. The minimum amount of US D 50,000 shall be kept as a 
 
2 Modified vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 16 dated November 28, 2025

[Page 5]
5 
foreign currency deposit while the balance amount may be kept in the form of a Bank 
Guarantee. The adequacy of collateral should be reviewed by Indian Agents at 
quarterly intervals on the basis of remittances received during the past three months. 
 
3.4 Other conditions  
a. Only cross -border personal remittances , such as, remittances towards family 
maintenance and remittances favouring foreign tourists visiting India shall be allowed 
under this arrangement. Donations/  contributions to charitable institutions/t  rusts, 
trade related remittances, remittance towards purchase of property, investments or 
credit to NRE Accounts shall not be made through this arrangement.  
b. A cap of US D 2500 has been placed on individual remittance under the scheme. 
Amounts up to Rs.50,000/- may be paid in cash to a beneficiary in India. Any amount 
exceeding this limit shall be paid by means of account payee cheque/ demand draft/ 
payment order, etc. , or credited directly to the beneficiary's bank account only. 
However, in exceptional circumstances, where the beneficiary is a foreign tour ist, 
higher amounts may be disbursed in cash. Full details of such transactions should be 
kept on record for scrutiny by the auditors/ inspectors.  
c. Only 30 remittances can be received by a single individual beneficiary under the 
scheme during a calendar year.  
 
3.5 Criteria for RBI decisions  
(i) The Indian Agents need to have strength and efficiency to function profitably in a 
highly competitive environment. As a number of Indian Agents are already 
functioning, permission (authorization) will be issued on a very selective basis to 
those who meet the above requirements, have necessary outreach and who are 
likely to conform to the best international and domestic standards of customer service 
and efficiency.  
(ii) The Indian Agent should commence its money transfer operations under the 
scheme within a period of six months from the date of issuance of permission  
(authorization) and inform the regional office concerned of the Foreign Exchange 
Department of the Reserve Bank.

[Page 6]
6 
4. Guidelines for Overseas Principals 
Indian Agents entering into arrangements with Money Transfer Operators overseas, 
known as Overseas Principals, may note that Overseas Principals with adequate 
volume of business, track record and outreach will only be considered under the 
scheme. Further, since the primary objective of permitting the business of money 
transfer business in the country is to facilitate cheaper and more efficient means of 
receipt of remittances, operators with limited outreach in terms of branch network in 
the country and localized operations overseas will not be entertained.  
Applicant Indian Agents should submit the following documents/ comply with the 
following requirements, in respect of their Overseas Principals:  
a) The Overseas Principal should obtain necessary authorisation from the 
Department of Payment and Settlement Systems, Reserve Bank of India 
under the provisions of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act (PS S Act), 
2007 to commence/ operate a payment system. Prior to such authorization, 
the Reserve Bank will verify the background and antecedents of the Overseas 
Principal with the help of Govt. of India,  
b) The Overseas Principal should be a registered entity, l icenced by the Central 
Bank / Government or financial regulatory authority of the country concerned 
for carrying on Money Transfer Activities. The country of registration of the 
Overseas Principal should be AML compliant.  
c) The minimum n et-worth of Overseas Principals should be at least US D 1 
million as per the latest audited balance sheet, which should be maintained at 
all times. However, the Reserve Bank may consider relaxing the minimum Net 
Worth criterion in case of Overseas Principals incorporat ed in FATF member 
countries and are supervised by the concerned Central Bank/ Government or 
financial regulatory authority.  
d) The Overseas Principal should be well established in the money transfer 
business with a track record of operations in well regulated markets.  
e) The arrangement with Overseas Principal should result in considerably 
increasing access to formal money transfer facilities at both ends.  
f) The Overseas Principal should be registered with the overseas trade / Industry 
bodies.

[Page 7]
7 
g) The Overseas Prin cipal should have a good rating from one of the 
international credit rating agencies.  
h) The Overseas Principal should submit confidential reports from at least two of 
its bankers.  
i) The Overseas Principal should submit a report certified by independent 
Chartered Accountants, regarding steps taken to comply with anti -money 
laundering norms in the home/ host country.  
j) The Overseas Principals will be fully responsible for the activities of their 
Agents and Sub Agents in India.  
k) Proper records of remitters as als o beneficiaries pertaining to all pay -outs in 
India are to be maintained by the Overseas Principals. All records must be 
made accessible on demand to the Reserve Bank or other agencies of the 
Government of India, viz. , Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Home  Affairs, FIU-
IND, etc. Full details of the remitters and the beneficiaries should be provided 
by the Overseas Principals, if called for.  
 
5. Guidelines for appointment of Sub Agents by Indian Agents 
5.1 The Scheme  
Under the Scheme, Indian Agents can enter into Sub Agency agreements with 
entities, fulfilling certain conditions, for the purpose of undertaking money transfer 
business.  
 
5.2 Sub Agents  
A Sub Agent should have a place of business, and whose bonafides are acceptable 
to the Indian Agent. Indian Agents are free to decide on the tenor of the arrangement 
as also the commission or fee through mutual agreement with the Sub Agent. The 
audit and on-site inspection of premises and records of the Sub Agents by the Indian 
Agent to be conducted at least once in a month and in a year respectively.  
 
5.3 Procedure for Submission of information in respect of Sub Agents by Indian 
Agents. 
Indian Agents should submit on a quarterly basis necessary information in the 
prescribed format in soft copy form pertaining to their Sub Agents appointed during a

[Page 8]
8 
quarter within 15 days from the end of the quarter, to the respective regional offices 
of the Foreign Exchange Department of the Reserve Bank under whose jurisdiction 
the registered office of the Indian Agent falls for onward submission to the Ministry of 
Home Affairs (MHA), Govt. of India (GoI) through the Ministry of Finance (MoF), 
Govt. of India (GoI). In case of any objection by the MHA, the Sub Agency 
arrangement concerned should be terminated immediately.  
Indian Agents should also furnish certificates that the Sub Agents appointed by them 
comply with the eligibility norms and al so they have done due diligence, wherever 
applicable, in respect of their Sub Agents.  
5.4 Due Diligence of Sub Agents  
The Indian Agents and the Overseas Principals should undertake the following 
minimum checks while conducting due diligence of the Sub Ag ents, other than AD 
Category-I, AD Cat egory-II, Scheduled Commercial Banks, F ull Fledged Money 
Changers and the Department of Posts:  
• Existing business activities of the Sub Agent/ its position in area  
• Shop & Establishment/ other applicable municipal cert ification in favour of the 
Sub Agent  
• Verification of physical existence of location of the Sub Agent  
• Conduct certificate of the Sub Agent from the local police authorities (certified 
copy of Memorandum and Articles of Association and Certificate of 
Incorporation in respect of incorporated entities).  
Note: Although obtaining of conduct certificate of the Sub Agent from the local police 
authorities is non-mandatory for the Indian Agents, the Indian Agents must take due 
care to avoid appointing individuals/  entities as Sub Agents who have cases / 
proceedings initiated / pending against them by any law enforcing agencies.  
 
• Declaration regarding past criminal cases, cases initiated/ pending against the 
Sub Agent and/or its directors/ partners by any law enforcing agency, if any  
• PAN Card of the Sub Agents and its directors/ partners  
• Photographs of the directors/ partners and the key persons of the Sub Agent  
 
The above checks should be done on a regular basis, at least once in a year. The 
Indian Agents should obtain from the Sub Agents proper documentary evidence 
confirming the location of the Sub Agents in addition to personal visits to the site. The

[Page 9]
9 
Indian Agents should discontinue agreements with Sub Agents who do not meet the 
criteria laid down above within three months from the date of this circular.  
 
5.5 Selection of Centers  
The Indian Agents are free to select centers for operationalizing the Scheme. 
However, this may be advised to the Reserve Bank.  
 
5.6 Training  
The Indian Agents would be expected to impart training to the Sub Agents as regards 
operations and maintenance of records.  
 
5.7 Reporting, Audit and Inspection  
The Indian Agents would be expected to put in place adequate arrangements for 
reporting of transactions by the Sub Agents to the Indian Agents (on a regular basis) 
in a simple format to be prescribed by them, say at monthly intervals.  
Regular spot audits of all locations of Sub Agents, at least on a monthly basis, should 
be conducted by Indian Agents. Such audits should involve a dedicated team and 
'mystery customer'  (Individuals acting as potential customers to experience and 
measure the extent up to which people and pr ocess perform as they should) concept 
should be used to test the compliance carried out by Sub Agents. As mentioned 
above, a system of inspection of the books of the Sub Agents should be put in place. 
The purpose of such inspection, which should be done at least once a year, would be 
to ensure that the money transfer business is being carried out by the Sub Agents in 
conformity with the terms of agreement/prevailing RBI guidelines and that necessary 
records are being maintained by the Sub Agents.  
Note:- The Indian Agents are fully responsible for the activities of their Sub Agents. While the Indian 
Agents will be encouraged to act as self -regulated entities, the onus of ensuring the conduct of 
activities of the Sub Agents in the prescribed manner will lie s olely on the Indian Agents concerned 
and Reserve Bank of India can in no way be held responsible for the activities of the Sub Agents. 
Each Indian Agent would be required to conduct due diligence before appointing a Sub Agent and any 
irregularity observed could render the Indian Agent’s permission liable for cancellation.  
 
6. Guidelines for renewal of permission (authorization) of existing Indian 
Agents 
(i)  Necessary permission to Indian Agents will be issued initially for a period of one 
year, which may be renewed for one to three years at a time on the basis of fulfilment

[Page 10]
10 
of all conditions and other directions/ instructions issued by the Reserve Bank from 
time to time.  
(ii) The applicant should be an Authorised Dealer Category -I bank or an Authorised 
Dealer Category-II or a Full Fledged Money Changer (FFMC).  
(iii) The Indian Agent should have minimum Net Owned Funds of Rs.50 lakh.  
(iv) Application for renewal of permission should be submitted 3(through the 
APConnect application by non- bank AD Category-II and FFMCs) to the Regional 
Office concerned of the Foreign Exchange Department of the Reserve Bank under 
whose jurisdiction the registered office of the Indian Agent falls along- with the 
documents pertaining to the Overseas Principal as detailed above and the following 
documents:  
a) A declaration to the effect that no proceedings have been initiated by/ are 
pending with the Directorate of Enforcement (DoE)/ Directorate of Revenue 
Intelligence (DRI) or any other law enforcing authorities, against t he Indian 
Agent or its directors and that no criminal cases are initiated/ pending against 
the Indian Agent or its directors.  
b) A write up on the KYC/ AML/ CFT, risk management and internal control policy 
framework, put in place by the Indian Agent.  
c) Audited Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account for the last two financial 
years of the Indian Agent, if available or a copy of the latest audited accounts, 
with a certificate from statutory auditors regarding the position of the Net 
Owned Funds as on the date of application.  
d) Confidential Reports from at least two of the bankers of the Indian Agent in 
sealed cover.  
e) Details of sister/ associated concerns of the Indian Agent functioning in the 
financial sector.  
f) A certified copy of the board resolution for renewal of permission.  
 
Note :- An application for the renewal of permission under MTSS shall be made not later than one 
month, or such other period as the Reserve Bank may prescribe, before the expiry of the permission. 
Where an entity submits an application for the renewal of its MTSS permission, the permission shall 
continue in force until the date on which the permission is renewed or the application for renewal of 
permission is rejected, as the case may be.  No application for renewal of MTSS permission shall be 
made after the expiry of the permission. 
 
 
 
3 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.01 dated April 06, 2023

[Page 11]
11 
7. Inspection of Indian Agents  
Inspections of the Indian Agents may be conducted by the Reserve Bank under the 
provisions of Section 12(1) of the FEMA, 1999.  
 
8. KYC/ AML/ CFT Guidelines for the Indian Agents  
(i) Detailed instructions on Know Your Customer (KYC) norms 4/ Anti-Money 
Laundering (AML) standards/ Combating the Financing of Terrorism (CFT) for Indian 
Agents under MTSS in respect of cross -border inward remittance activities, in the 
context of the FATF Recommendations on Anti Money Laundering standards and on 
Combating the Financing of Terrorism issued by Reserve Bank of India shall, mutatis 
mutandis, be applicable to all Authorised Persons (APs), who are Indian agents 
under MTSS and to their Sub-agents.  
(ii)  To facilitate receipt of foreign i nward remittances directly into bank account of the 
beneficiary, the foreign inward remittances received under MTSS can be transferred 
to the KYC compliant beneficiary bank account through electronic mode, such as 
NEFT, IMPS etc.  Foreign inward remittances received by the bank acting as Indian 
Agent under MTSS (termed as ‘Partner Bank’), may also be electronically credited 
directly to the account of the beneficiary, held with a bank other than the Indian Agent 
Bank (termed as ‘Recipient Bank’), subject to the following conditions: 
a) The Recipient Bank will credit the amount transferred by the Partner bank only 
to KYC compliant bank accounts. 
b) In respect of the bank accounts which are not KYC compliant, the Recipient 
Bank shall carry out KYC/ Customer Due Dilig ence ( CDD) of the recipient 
before the remittance to such account is credited or allowed to be withdrawn. 
c) The Partner Bank shall appropriately mark the direct-to-account remittances to 
indicate to the Recipient Bank that it is a foreign inward remittance. 
d) The Partner Bank shall ensure that accurate originator information and 
necessary beneficiary information is included in the electronic message while 
transferring the fund to the Recipient Bank. This information should be 
available in the remittance message throughout the payment chain i.e. the 
overseas principal, the Partner Bank and the Recipient Bank. The Partner 
Bank should add an appropriate alert in the electronic message indicating that 
 
4 Modified vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 16 dated November 28, 2025

[Page 12]
12 
this is a foreign inward remittance and should not be credited to KYC non -
compliant account or NRE/ NRO accounts.  
e) The identification and other documents of the recipient shall be maintained by 
the Recipient Bank as per the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering 
(Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005. All other requirements under KYC/  
AML/ CFT guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India for MTSS from time 
to time shall be adhered to by the Partner Bank. 
f) The Recipient Bank may seek additional information from the Partner Bank 
and shall report suspicious transactions to the FIU -IND with details of the 
Partner Bank through which they received the remittances. 
 
9. General Instructions  
All Overseas Principals are required to submit their annual audited balance sheet 
along with a certificate on Net Worth from their Statutory Auditors to the concerned 
Regional Office of the Foreign Exchange Department and the Department of Payment 
and Settlement Systems of the Reserve Bank. Similarly, all Indian Agents are required 
to submit their annual audited balance sheet along with a certificate from their 
Statutory Auditors on Net Owned Funds to the r egional offices concerned of the 
Foreign Exchange Department of the Reserve Bank. As the Overseas Principals and 
the Indian Agents are expected to maintain minimum Net Worth and Net Owned Funds 
respectively on an ongoing basis, they are required to bring it to the notice of the 
Reserve Bank immediately along with a detailed plan of restoring the Net Worth/ Net 
Owned Funds to the minimum required level, if there is any reduction in their Net 
Worth/ Net Owned Funds below the minimum level. 
 
10. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) during elections 
The SOP given as ‘Annex’ for non-bank APs is to be followed by all non-bank APs who 
are Indian Agents under MTSS and they are also required to bring the contents of the 
SOP to the notice of their Sub-Agents/ constituents concerned.

[Page 13]
13 
Annex 
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for non- bank money changers during 
elections 
The movement of foreign exchange can take place between Authorised Dealer 
Category I (AD Cat. I), Authorised Dealer Category II (AD Cat. II), Full Fledged Money 
Changers (FFMC), their offices/branches, their customers and their franchisees.  
On a request received from the Election Commission of India the following Standard 
Operating Practice (SOP) for movement of cash (foreign exchange), during elections is 
being notified: 
A. Physical Movement- 
1. All movement of Indian currency or foreign exchange should be effected by the 
person(s) authorised, who should carry the supporting documents while moving 
the cash. The movement should be on the basis of requisition made by the 
receiver and to the address of the destination. 
2. If the cash is being moved from the office/branch of the AP,  it should leave the 
place only after it has been recorded in the books of accounts of the AP. 
3. Similarly, if the destination point of movement of the currency is the 
office/branch of the AP, it should be recorded in the books of accounts of the 
AP, on the same day or on the date of receipt. 
4. Transfer of foreign currency between branches  of the same AP should be 
accounted as stock transfer and not as sale so that double counting is avoided.  
B. In the case of doorstep forex service by FFMCs / Authorised Dealers Category II to 
their regular customers, inter -alia, the processing and account ing of the transaction 
should take place in the office of the AP and the transaction should be supported by 
necessary documents for value received. The delivery of the forex should be done by 
authorised officials of the AP only.  
C. As far as possible movement of Indian Currency should be made through banking 
channels (viz. cheque, demand draft, NEFT, RTGS, IMPS etc.) only. The transactions 
between authorized dealers and FFMCs should  be settled by way of account payee 
crossed cheques / demand drafts/ and in no circumstances the settlement of Indian 
Currency should be made in cash. The cash (INR) collected by the AP or its franchisee 
should be deposited to a bank branch on the same day or next day.

[Page 14]
14 
D. The cancellation of any move for tr ansportation of cash should be properly 
documented. 
E. The movement of cash should be in sync with the documents. 
F. The upper limit for movement of cash in INR would be Rs. 10,00,000/-  and in 
Foreign Currency  equivalent of US D 1,00,000 except the transact ions where the 
imported foreign currency is being transported to the offices/ branch of the AP.

[Page 15]
15 
Appendix 
List of Circulars/ Notifications which have been consolidated in the Master 
Direction on Money Transfer Service Scheme 
 
S. No. Circulars Date 
1. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 25 March 06, 2006 
2. A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 132 June 8, 2012 
3. A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 89 March 12, 2013 
4. A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.110 March 4, 2014 
5. A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 8 July 18, 2014 
6. A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 49 December 16, 2014 
7. A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 88 March 25, 2015 
8. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.01 April 06, 2023 
9. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 16 November 28, 2025
