[Page 1]
RBI/FED/2017-18/60   
FED Master Direction No.11/2017-18                                              January 4, 2018 
(Updated up to June 15, 2026) 
                                                                                (Updated up to January 20, 2025) 
                                                                              (Updated as on January 16, 2025) 
                                                                                (Updated up to August 08, 2024)  
(Updated up to March 17, 2022)                                                                                  
(Updated up to March 08, 2019)                                                                           
(Updated up to December 19, 2018)                                                                                   
(Updated as on April 06, 2018)                                                                                             
(Updated as on January 12, 2018)   
To,  
All Authorised Dealer Category – I banks  
and Authorised banks  
 
Madam / Sir,  
Master Direction – Foreign Investment in India  
 
Foreign Investment in India is regulated in terms of sub-section 2A of Section 6 and 
Section 47 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA) read with 
Foreign Exchange Management (Non- Debt Instruments) Rules, 2019  (NDI Rules) 
issued vide Gazette Notification No. S.O. 3732(E) dated October 17, 2019 in 
supersession of the  Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security 
by a Person Resident outside India) Regulations, 2017 , and the Foreign Exchange 
Management (Acquisition and Transfer of Immovable Property in India) 
Regulations, 2018. T hese rules are amended from time to time to incorporate the 
changes in the regulatory framework and published through gazette notifications.  
 
2. Rule 2(A) of NDI Rules empowers the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to administer it, 
and while administ ering these rules, the RBI may interpret and issue such 
directions, circulars, instructions, clarifications, as it may deem necessary, for 
effective implementation of the provisions of these rules. The instructions relating to 
mode of payment and reporting requirements for investment in India by a person 
resident outside India are contained in Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of 
Payment and Reporting of Non-Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2019 (FEMA 395).

[Page 2]
2  
3. RBI, therefore, issues directions to Authorised Persons under Section 11 of the 
Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), 1999. This Master Direction lays 
down the modalities as to how the foreign exchange business has to be conducted 
by the Authorised Persons with their customers/ constituents with a view to 
implementing the rules framed.  
 
4. Instructions issued on Foreign Investment in India and its related aspects under the 
FEMA have been compiled in this Master Direction. The list of underlying circulars/ 
notifications which form the basis of this Master Direction is furnished in Annex 12.  
 
5. This Master Direction has been issued under sections 10(4) and 11(1) of the 
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999)  read with Rule 2(A) (2) of 
the NDI Rules and  are without prejudice to permissions/ approvals, if any, required 
under any other law. 
  
  
Yours faithfully   
 
 (Dr. Aditya Gaiha)  
Chief General Manager-in-Charge

[Page 3]
3  
 
Master Direction – Foreign Investment in India  
  
1. Introduction  
1.1 These directions may be referred to for general guidance and should be read in 
conjunction with the relevant notifications/directions issued under FEMA/ NDI 
Rules/FEMA 395. In case of any inconsistency(ies) between these directions and 
FEMA notification(s), the latter shall prevail. 
 
1.2 An investment made by a person resident outside India in accordance with 
FEMA or the rules or the regulations framed thereunder and held on the date of 
commencement of NDI Rules i.e. October 17, 2019, shall be deemed to have been 
made in accordance with NDI Rules and shall accordingly be governed under it. 
 
1.3 In terms of Section 6(5) of FEMA, a person resident outside India may hold, own, 
transfer or invest in a security in India if such security was acquired, held or owned 
by such person when he was resident in India or inherited from  a person who was 
resident in India. Such investment will be held by such person on a non- repatriable 
basis. In case of death of a person resident in India and consequent transmission of 
equity instruments held by the person resident in India to non- resident legal heir by 
way of inheritance, the inherited equity instruments shall be held on non- repatriation 
basis and, therefore, reporting for the said transaction shall not be required.  
 
In case of change of residential status of a person resident in India to a person 
resident outside India, the investment shall be considered on non-repatriation basis. 
 
2. Key terms  
Some key terms used in this Master Direction are given below: 
2.1 ‘Act’ is the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999). 
 
2.2 ‘Equity  Instruments’ are equity shares, convertible debentures, preference 
shares and share warrants issued by an Indian company. The details of what shall 
construe equity instruments are at para 4 of this Master Direction. 
 
2.3 ‘Indian company’ means a company as defined in the Companies Act, 2013 or a 
body corporate established or constituted by or under any Central or State Act, 
which is incorporated in India but does not include a society, trust or any entity, 
which is excluded as an eligible investee entity under the FDI Policy. 
 
Note :Re ference to 'company' or 'investee company' or 'transferee company' or 
'transferor company' also includes a reference to a body corporate established or 
constituted by or under any Central or State Act but if the term 'Company ' or 'Indian 
company' or 'Investee company' or 'transferee company' or 'transferor company' is 
qualified by a reference to a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 
such term shall mean a company incorporated under the said Act but not a body 
corporate.  
 
2.4 ‘Control’ shall  have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Companies Act, 
2013 and for the purposes of Limited Liability Partnership, shall mean the right to

[Page 4]
4  
appoint majority of the designated partners, where such designated partners, wi th 
specific exclusion to others, have control over all the policies of an LLP. 
 
2.5 ‘Convertible Note’ is an instrument issued by a start-up company evidencing 
receipt of money initially as debt, which is repayable at the option of the holder, or 
which is convertible into such number of equity shares of such start-up company, 
within a period not exceeding ten years from the date of issue of the convertible 
note, upon occurrence of specified events as per the other terms and conditions 
agreed to and indicated in the instrument. 
 
2.6 ‘E -commerce’ is buying and selling of goods and services including digital 
products over digital & electronic network. 
2.6.1 ‘E -commerce entity’ are the following entities conducting the e- commerce 
business 
a. a company incorporated under  the Companies Act, 1956 or  the Companies 
Act, 2013 or 
b. a foreign company covered under section 2 (42) of the Companies Act, 2013 
or 
c. an office, branch or agency in India owned or controlled by a person resident 
outside India and 
2.6.2 ‘Inventory based model of e- commerce’ means an e-commerce activity where 
inventory of goods and services is owned by e- commerce entity and is sold to the 
consumers directly. 
2.6.3 ‘Market place model of e- commerce’ means providing of an information 
technology platform by an e- commerce entity on a digital & electronic network to act 
as a facilitator between buyer and seller. 
2.6.4 Foreign investment is not permitted in Inventory based model of e-commerce. 
2.7 ‘FDI linked performance conditions’ is the sector specific conditions stipulated 
in Schedule I of the NDI Rules for companies receiving foreign investment. 
2.8 ‘Foreign Direct Investment’ (FDI) is the investment through  equity instruments by 
a person resident outside India (a) in an unlisted Indian company; or (b) in 10 percent 
or more of the post issue paid- up equity capital on a fully diluted basis of a listed 
Indian company. 
2.8.1 If an existing investment by a person resident outside India in equity 
instruments of a listed Indian company falls to a level below 10 percent of the post 
issue paid-up equity capital on a fully diluted basis, the investment will continue to be 
treated as FDI. 
2.8.2 Fully diluted basis means the total number of shares that would be outstanding 
if all possible sources of conversion are exercised. 
2.9 ‘Foreign Portfolio Investment’ is any investment made by a person resident 
outside India in equity instruments where such investment is (a) less than 10 percent 
of the post issue paid- up equity capital on a fully diluted basis of a listed Indian 
company or (b) less than 10 percent of the  paid-up value of each series of  equity 
instruments of a listed Indian company.

[Page 5]
5  
2.10 ‘Foreign Portfolio Investor (FPI)’ is a person registered in accordance with the 
provisions of Securities Exchange Board of India ( SEBI) (Foreign Portfolio Investors) 
Regulations, 2014, as amended from time to time. 
2.10.1 Any Foreign Institutional Investor (FII) or a sub account registered under the 
Securities Exchange Board of India (Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations, 
1995 and holding a valid certificate of registration from SEBI shall be deemed to be a 
FPI till the expiry of the block of three years from the enactment of the SEBI (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014. 
2.11 ‘Foreign Investment’ is any investment made by a person resident outs ide India 
on a repatriable basis in equity instruments of an Indian company or to the capital of 
an LLP. 
2.11.1 Issue/ transfer of ‘participating interest/ right’ in oil fields by Indian companies 
to a person resident outside India would be treated as foreign investment. 
2.11.2 If a declaration is made by persons as per the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 about a beneficial interest being held by a person resident outside India, 
then even though the investment may be made by a resident Indian citizen, the same 
shall be counted as foreign investment. 
2.11.3 A person resident outside India may hold foreign investment either as Foreign 
Direct Investment or as Foreign Portfolio Investment in any particular Indian 
company. 
2.12 ‘Group company’ is two or more enterprises which, directly or indirectly, are in a 
position to (a) exercise 26 percent, or more of voting rights in other enterprise; or (b) 
appoint more than 50 percent of members of board of directors in the other 
enterprise. 
2.13 ‘Indian entity’ is an Indian company or an LLP. 
2.14 ‘Investment’ is to subscribe, acquire, hold or transfer any security or unit issued 
by a person resident in India. 
2.14.1 Investment will include acquisition, holding or transfer of depository receipts 
issued outside India, the underlying of which is a security issued by a person resident 
in India. 
2.14.2 For the purpose of an LLP, investment shall mean capital contribution or 
acquisition/ transfer of profit shares. 
2.15 ‘ESOP’ means ‘Employees’ stock option’ as defined under the Companies Act, 
2013 and issued under the regulations by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India. 
 
2.16 ‘sweat equity shares’ means sweat equity shares defined under the Companies 
Act, 2013. 
 
2.17 ‘Share Based Employee  Benefits’ means issue of equi ty instruments to 
employees or directors of the holding company or joint venture or wholly owned 
overseas subsidiary or subsidiaries who are resident outside India, pursuant to Share 
Based Employee Benefits schemes formulated by an Indian Company.

[Page 6]
6  
2.18 'Investment on repatriation basis' is an investment, the sale/ maturity proceeds 
of which are, net of taxes, eligible to be repatriated and the expression 'Investment 
on non-repatriation basis', will be construed accordingly. 
2.19 ‘Investment Vehicle’ is an entity registered and regulated under relevant 
regulations framed by SEBI or any other authority designated for the purpose and will 
be Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) governed by the SEBI (REITs) 
Regulations, 2014, Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) governed by the SEBI 
(InvITs) Regulations, 2014 and Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) governed by the 
SEBI (AIFs) Regulations, 2012. 
2.19.1 A Venture Capital Fund (VCF) established in the form of a trust or a company  
or a body corporate and regis tered under the SEBI (Venture Capital Fund) 
Regulations, 1996 will not be considered as an Investment Vehicle for the purpose 
of the NDI Rules and this Master Direction. 
2.20 ‘Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)’ is a partnership formed and registered under 
the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008. 
2.21 ‘Listed Indian Company’ is an Indian company which has any of its  equity 
instruments listed on a recognized stock exchange in India and the expression 
‘Unlisted Indian Company’ shall be construed accordingly 
2.22 ‘Non- Debt Instruments’ as determined by Central Government by Gazette 
Notification S.O. 3722 (E) dated October 16, 2019, means the following instruments; 
namely: - 
a. all investments in equity instruments in incorporated entities: public, private, 
listed and unlisted; 
b. capital participation in LLP; 
c. all instruments of investment recognised in the FDI policy notified from time to 
time; 
d. investment in units of Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs), Real Estate 
Investment Trust (REITs) and Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs); 
e. investment in units of mutual funds or Exchange- Traded Fund (ETFs) which 
invest more than fifty per cent in equity; 
f. junior-most layer (i.e. equity tranche) of securitisation structure; 
g. acquisition, sale or dealing directly in immovable property; 
h. contribution to trusts; and 
i. depository receipts issued against equity instruments. 
2.23 ‘Non-Resident Indian (NRI)’ is an individual resident outside India who is citizen 
of India. 
2.24 ‘Overseas Citizen of India (OCI)’ is an individual resid ent outside India who is 
registered as an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder under Section 7(A) of the 
Citizenship Act, 1955. 
2.25 ‘Resident Indian citizen’ is an individual who is a person resident in India and is 
citizen of India by virtue of the Constitution of India or the Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 
1955).

[Page 7]
7  
2.26 ‘Real estate business’ is dealing in land and immovable property with a view to 
earning profit therefrom and does not include development of townships, construction 
of residential/ commercial  premises, roads or bridges, educational institutions, 
recreational facilities, city and regional level infrastructure, townships. 
Explanation: — 
i) Investment in units of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) registered and 
regulated under the SEBI (REITs) regulations 2014 shall also be excluded from the 
definition of “real estate business”. 
ii) Earning of rent income on lease of the property, not amounting to transfer, shall 
not amount to real estate business. 
iii) Transfer in relation to real estate includes, 
a. the sale, exchange or relinquishment of the asset; or 
b. the extinguishment of any rights therein; or 
c. the compulsory acquisition thereof under any law; or 
d. any transaction involving the allowing of the possession of any immovable 
property to be taken or retained in part performance of a contract of the nature 
referred to in section 53A of the Transfer of Property Act,1882 (4 of 1882); or 
e. any transaction, by acquiring capital instruments in a company or by way of 
any agreement or any arrangement or in any other manner whatsoever, which 
has the effect of transferring, or enabling the enjoyment of, any immovable 
property. 
Real estate broking services is excluded from the definition of “real estate business” 
and 100% foreign inves tment is allowed in real estate broking services under 
automatic route. 
2.27 ‘Sectoral cap’ is the maximum investment including both foreign investment on a 
repatriation basis by persons resident outside India in equity instruments  of a 
company or the capital of a LLP, as the case may be, and indirect foreign 
investment, unless provided otherwise. This shall be the composite limit for the 
investee Indian entity. 
2.27.1 FCCBs and DRs having underlying of instruments being in the nature of debt 
shall not be included in the sectoral cap. 
2.27.2 Any equity held by a person resident outside India resulting from conversion of 
any debt instrument under any arrangement shall be reckoned under the sectoral 
cap. 
2.28 ‘Unit’ is the beneficial interest of an investor in an investment vehicle. 
Explanation.- 
i) For the purpose of this clause, unit shall include unit that has been partly paid up, 
which is permitted under the regulations framed by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, in consultation with Government of India. 
Note: Issuance of partly paid units by Alternative Investment Funds to persons 
resident outside India was not permitted prior to the issuance of Foreign Exchange 
Management (Non-debt Instruments) (Second Amendment) Rules, 2024. Therefore, 
issuance of such partly paid units prior to said amendment shall require to be 
regularized through compounding under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999.

[Page 8]
8  
However, before approaching the Reserve Bank for compounding, AD Category -I 
banks may ensure that the necessary administrative action, including the reporting of 
such issuances by Alternative Investment Funds to the Reserve Bank, through 
Foreign Investment Reporting and Management System (FIRMS) Portal and issuing 
of conditional acknowledgements for such reporting, is completed. 
The words and expressions used but not defined in this Master Direction shall have 
the same meanings respectively as assigned to them in the Act, Rules and 
Regulations made thereunder.  1 For the purpose of these directions, “banking 
channels” shall include any rupee vostro accounts, including Special Rupee Vostro 
Accounts, permitted to be held by a person resident outside India, in terms of 
Regulation 7(1) of Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016. 
3. Prohibited sectors/ persons 
3.1 Investment by a person resident outside India is prohibited in the following 
sectors: 
1. Lottery Business including Government/ private lottery, online lotteries. 
2. Gambling and betting including casinos. 
3. Chit funds 
4. Nidhi company 
5. Trading in Transferable Development Rights (TDRs). 
6. Real Estate Business or Construction of farm houses. 
 
Explanation: For the purpose of this rule, 'real estate business shall not include 
development of townships, construction of residential or commercial premises, 
roads or bridges and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) registered and 
regulated under the SEBI (REITs) Regulations, 2014. 
7. Manufacturing of Cigars, cheroots, cigarillos and cigarettes,  of tobacco or of 
tobacco substitutes. 
8. Activities/sectors not open to private sector investment viz., (i) Atomic energy 
and (ii) Railway operations 
9. Foreign technology collaboration in any form including licensing for franchise, 
trademark, brand name, management contract is also prohibi ted for  lottery 
business and gambling and betting activities. 
3.2 Investment under Schedule I of NDI Rules by an entity or a citizen o f a country, 
which shares land border with India or where the beneficial owner of an investm ent 
into India is a citizen of any such country,  or where the beneficial ownership of an 
investment is vested in any such country shall  invest only under the Government 
route.  
Explanation 1. — For the purposes of this para, — 
(i) the expression “beneficial owner of an investment into India” shall mean the 
beneficial owner of the investor entity incorporated or registered in a country other 
than a country which shares land border with India; and 
(ii) the expression “beneficial owner” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it 
in clause (fa) of sub- section (1) of section 2 of the Prevention of Money -laundering 
 
1 Inserted vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025

[Page 9]
9  
Act, 2002 (15 of 2003), and shall be determined as per the criteria specified under 
sub-rule (3) of rule 9 of the Prevention of Money -laundering (Maintenance of 
Records) Rules, 2005, made under the said Act. 
 
Explanation 2. —The beneficial ownership of the investment shall be construed to 
be vested in a country sharing land border with India, where – 
(a) a citizen of a country sharing land border with India; or 
(b) an entity incorporated or registered in such country sharing land border with India, 
has the ability to directly or indirectly, individually or cumulatively with any another 
citizen or entity, independently or collectively with any another c itizen or entity, 
whether acting together or otherwise, hold rights or entitlements – 
(A) in excess of  the applicable thresholds specified in sub- rule (3) of rule 9 of 
Prevention of Money -laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005 over an 
investor entity which is incorporated or registered in a country other than a country 
sharing land border with India; or 
(B) which enables such citizen or entity or both to exercise control over the investor 
entity referred above; or 
(C) which enables such citizen or entity or both to exercise ultimate effective control 
over the Investee entity in any manner. 
 
3.2.1 Investments into India from an investor entity having any direct or indirect 
ownership by a citizen or an entity of a country sharing land border with Indi a and 
where such investment does not require government approval under the provisions 
of para 3.2, shall be subject to reporting requirements specified by the Reserve 
Bank. 
Provided that a Multilateral Bank or Fund, of which India is a member, shall not be 
treated as an entity of a particular country nor shall any country be treated as the 
beneficial owner of the investments of such Bank or Fund in India. 
3.3 A person who is a citizen of Pakistan or an entity incorporated in Pakistan can, 
only with the prior Government approval, invest in sectors/ activities other than 
defence, space, atomic energy and sectors/ activities prohibited for foreign 
investment. 
3.4 In the event of the transfer of ownership of any existing or future FDI in an entity 
in India, directly or indirectly, resulting in the beneficial ownership falling within the 
restriction or purview of (3.2) and (3.3) above, such subsequent change in beneficial 
ownership shall also require government approval. 
4. Equity instruments 
4.1 An Indian company  is permitted to receive foreign investment by issuing equity 
instruments to the investor. The equity instruments  are equity 
shares, convertible debentures, preference shares and share warrants issued by the 
Indian company. 
4.2 Equity shares: Equity shares are those issued in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and will include equity shares that have been partly paid. 
4.3 Partly paid shares:  Partly paid shares issued on or after July 8, 2014 will be 
considered as equity instruments. 
4.3.1 Partly paid shares that have been issued to a person resident outside India 
should be fully called-up within twelve months of such issue.

[Page 10]
10  
4.3.2 Twenty five percent of the total consideration amount (including share premium, 
if any), has to be received upfront and the balance consideration towards fully -paid 
equity shares should be received within a period of twelve months from the date of 
issue of partly-paid shares. 
4.3.3 It shall not be necessary for a listed Indian company to receive the balance 
consideration within 12 months, if it has appointed a monitoring agency in 
compliance with regulations 41, 82, and 137 of the SEBI (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, as amended from time to time. 
4.3.4 In case of an unlisted Indian company  too, the balance consideration amount 
can be received after 12 months, however,  the investee company should appoint a 
monitoring agency on the same lines as required in case of a listed Indian company 
under the SEBI (ICDR) Regulations. Such monitoring agency (AD Category - 1 bank) 
should report to the investee company as prescribed by the SEBI regulations, ibid, 
for the listed companies. 
4.3.5 In case of non- payment of call money, the forfeiture of the amount paid upfront 
will be in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Income 
Tax provisions, as applicable. 
4.3.6. These conditions shall also be applicable where the person resident outside 
India acquires partly paid-up shares via transfer. 
4.4 Share warrants:  Share warra nts issued on or after July 8, 2014 will be 
considered as equity instruments. 
4.4.1 Share Warrants are those issued by an Indian Company in accordance with the 
regulations made by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the Companies 
Act, 2013 or any other applicable law. 
4.4.2 Pricing or the conversion formula shall be determined upfront.  At least twenty 
five percent of the consideration has to be received upfront and the balance amount 
within eighteen months of issuance of share warrants.  The price at  the time of 
conversion should not be, in any case, lower than the fair value worked out, at the 
time of issuance of such warrants, in accordance with the extant rules/ regulations 
and pricing guidelines stipulated from time to time. 
4.4.3 In case of non-p ayment of balance consideration, the forfeiture of the amount 
paid upfront will be in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and the Income Tax provisions, as applicable. 
4.4.4 These conditions shall also be applicable where the person r esident outside 
India acquires share warrants via transfer. 
4.5 The deferment of payment of consideration amount by the foreign investors or 
shortfall in receipt of consideration amount as per applicable pricing guidelines will 
not be treated as subscription to partly paid shares and warrants. 
4.6 Convertible debentures:  Convertible debentures means  fully and mandatorily 
convertible debentures which are fully paid. 
4.6.1 Amendment of the tenor of convertible debentures shall be in compliance with 
the Companies Act, 2013 and rules framed thereunder, as amended from time to 
time. However, the investee company should ensure that the price/ conversion 
formula of convertible equity instruments is determined upfront at the time of issue of 
the instruments. The price at the time of conversion should not in any case be lower

[Page 11]
11  
than the fair value worked out, at  the time of issuance of such instruments, in 
accordance with the NDI rules.  
4.6.2 Convertible debentures which are not fully, compulsorily and mandatorily 
convertible are debt instruments in terms of the notification no. S.O.3722(E) dated 
October 16, 2019, issued under sub- section (7) of Section 6 of FEMA. Therefore, 
issuance of the same are not governed under the NDI Rules. 
4.6.3 Optionally convertible/ partially convertible debentures issued up to June 7, 
2007 or for which funds were received for such issue prior to June 7, 2007 are 
deemed to have been issued in accordance with the NDI Rules  till their original 
maturity. Any extension of maturity prior to June 7, 2007, by the company in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  will be c onsidered as 
original maturity for the purpose of these rules. 
4.6.4 Non- convertible/ optionally convertible/ partially convertible debentures, funds 
for which have been received after June 07, 2007, shall be treated as debt and shall 
conform to External Commercial Borrowing (ECB) guidelines framed under Foreign 
Exchange Management (Borrowing and Lending in Foreign Exchange) Regulations, 
2018, as amended from time to time. 
4.7 Preference shares:  Preference shares means fully and mandatorily convertible 
preference shares, which are fully paid. 
4.7.1 Amendment of the tenor of preference shares shall be in compliance with the 
Companies Act, 2013 and rules framed thereunder, as amended from time to time. 
However, the investee company should ensure that the price/ conversion formula of 
convertible equity instruments is determined upfront at the time of issue of the 
instruments. The price at the time of conversion should not in any case be lower than 
the fair value worked out, at the time of issuance of such instruments, in accordance 
with the NDI rules.  
4.7.2 ‘Preference Shares’ which are not fully, compulsorily and mandatorily 
convertible preference shares are debt instruments in terms of the notification no. 
S.O.3722(E) dated October 16, 2019, issued under sub-section (7) of Section 6 of 
FEMA. Therefore, issuance of the same are not governed under the NDI Rules. 
4.7.3 Non- convertible/ optionally convertible/ partially c onvertible preference shares 
issued up to April 30, 2007 are deemed to have been issued in accordance with NDI 
Rules till their original maturity. They, however, will continue to be outside the 
sectoral caps till their original maturity. Any extension of maturity prior to April 30, 
2007 will be considered as original maturity. 
4.7.4 Non- convertible/ optionally convertible/ partially convertible preference shares 
funds for which have been received after  April 30, 2007 shall be treated as debt and 
shall conform to guidelines framed under Foreign Exchange Management (Borrowing 
and Lending in Foreign Exchange) Regulations, 2018, as amended from time to time. 
4.8 Equity instruments  issued on or after December 30, 2013 can contain an 
optionality clause subject to a minimum lock -in period of one year or as prescribed 
for the specific sector, whichever is higher, but without any option or right to exit at an 
assured price. 
5. Entry routes and Permitted sectors 
5.1 Entry Routes

[Page 12]
12  
Foreign investment in the equity instrum ents of an Indian company can be made 
through two routes, 
5.1.1 Automatic Route is the entry route  in which investment by a person resident 
outside India does not require the prior approval from the Central Government. 
5.1.2 Government Route is the entry r oute in which investment by a person resident 
outside India requires prior Government approval. Foreign investment received under 
this route shall be in accordance with the conditions stipulated by the Government in 
its approval. 
5.1.3 'Government approval ' means approval from the erstwhile Secretariat for 
Industrial Assistance (SIA)/ Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP), 
Government of India and/ or the erstwhile Foreign Investment Promotion Board 
(FIPB) and/ or any of the ministry/ department of the Government of India, as the 
case may be. The entities may make applications for Government approval on the 
Foreign Investment Facilitation Portal (FIFP) of Department for Promotion of Industry 
and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India. 
5.1.4 Aggregate Foreign Portfolio Investment up to forty-nine (4 9) percent of the 
paid-up capital on a fully diluted basis or the sectoral  or statutory cap, whichever is 
lower, shall not require Government approval or compliance of sectoral conditions as 
the case may be, if such investment does not result in transfer of ownership and 
control of the resident Indian company from resident Indian citizens or transfer of 
ownership or control to persons resident outside India. Other  investments by a 
person resident outside India shall be subject to conditions of Government approval 
and compliance of sectoral conditions as laid down in Schedule I of the NDI Rules. 
The aggregate limit of foreign portfolio investment by FPIs under sched ule II to the 
FEM (NDI) Rules,2019 with respect to an Indian company engaged in a prohibited 
sector for FDI shall be 24 per cent. 
Note: Investment from specified countries are to be in accordance with Paras 3.2, 3.3 
and 3.4 of these directions. 
5.2 Sectoral caps 
It means the maximum permissible foreign investment in an Indian entity, including 
both foreign investment on a repatriation basis by person residents outside India in 
equity instruments of a company or the capital of a LLP, as the case may be, and  
indirect foreign investment, unless provided otherwise 
5.2.1 Foreign investment in the sectors / activities given in  Schedule I of the NDI 
Rules is permitted up to the limit indicated against each sector/ activity, subject to 
applicable laws/ rules/ regulations, security and other conditionalities. 
5.2.2 Sectoral cap for the sectors/ activities is the limit indicated against each sector. 
The total foreign investment shall not exceed the sectoral/ statutory cap 
5.2.3 Foreign investment is permitted up to 100% on the automatic route, subject to 
applicable laws/rules/regulations, security and other conditionalities, in sectors/ 
activities not listed in  Schedule I of the NDI Rules  and not prohibited under  Para (2) 
of Schedule I of the NDI Rules. This condition i s not applicable for activities in 
financial services. 
5.2.4 Foreign investment in financial services other than those indicated under serial 
number “F” of table under Para (3)(b) of Schedule I of the NDI Rules  would require 
prior Government approval.

[Page 13]
13  
5.2.5 Wherever there is a requirement of minimum capitalization, it will include 
premium received along with the face value of the equity instrument. However, it 
should be received by the company upon issue of such instruments to a person 
resident outside Indi a. Amount paid by the transferee during post -issue transfer 
beyond the issue price of the  equity instrument cannot be taken into account while 
calculating minimum capitalization requirement. 
Note: In case of any clarification pertaining to foreign investme nt in a sector or 
related conditions, the request may be made to the Department of Promotion of  
Industry and Internal Trade, Ministry of commerce and Industry, Government of 
India. 
5.2.6 Foreign investment in investing companies: 
5.2.6.1 Foreign Investment  in investing companies not registered as Non- Banking 
Financial Companies with the RBI and in c ore investment companies (CICs), both 
engaged in the activity of investing in the capital of other Indian entities, will require 
prior Government approval. 
5.2.6.2 The core investment companies should additionally comply with the 
regulatory framework prescribed for such entities as NBFCs under the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934 and regulations framed thereunder. 
5.2.6.3 Foreign investment in investing companies r egistered as Non- Banking 
Financial Companies (NBFCs) with the RBI, will be under 100% automatic route. 
5.2.7 For undertaking activities which are under automatic route and without FDI 
linked performance conditions, an Indian company which does not have any  
operations and also has not made any downstream investment, may receive 
investment in its  equity instruments  from persons resident outside India under 
automatic route. However, Government approval will be required for such companies 
for undertaking activi ties which are under Government route. As and when such a 
company commences business(s) or makes downstream investment, it will have to 
comply with the relevant sectoral conditions on entry route, conditionalities and caps. 
Note: An Indian investee company  whose proposed activities are regulated by a 
financial sector regulator, may receive foreign investment to comply with the criteria 
of minimum net owned funds prescribed by such regulator. However, such 
investment shall only be used to comply with the minimum NOF criteria and shall not 
be used for any other purpose/activity. In case the registration/license is not granted 
by the respective regulator then the investment so received shall be repatriated or 
the Investee company shall comply with the conditions prescribed at para 5.2.7 
above. 
5.2.8 The onus of compliance with the sectoral/ statutory caps on foreign investment 
and attendant conditions if any, will be on the company receiving foreign investment. 
5.2.9 Wherever the person resident outside India who has made foreign investment 
specifies a particular auditor/ audit firm having international network for the audit of 
the Indian investee company, then audit of such investee company should be carried 
out as joint audit wherein one of the auditors is not part of the same network. 
 
6. Permitted Investments by persons resident outside India  
Unless o therwise specifically stated, any investment made by a person resident 
outside India shall be subject to the entry routes, sectoral caps or the investment

[Page 14]
14  
limits, as the case may be, and the attendant conditionalities for making such 
investment. A person resident outside India may make investment as stated 
hereinafter.  
6.1 Subscribe/ purchase/ sale of equity instruments  of an Indian company is 
permitted as per the directions laid down in Annex 1.  
 
6.2 Purchase/ sale of equity instruments  of a listed Indian company on a recognised 
stock exchange in India by Foreign Portfolio Investors is permitted as per the 
directions laid down in Annex 2.  
 
6.3 Purchase/ sale of equity instruments of a listed Indian co mpany on a recognised 
stock exchange in India by an individual person resident outside India including a 
Non-Resident Indian (NRI) or Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) on repatriation basis is 
permitted as per the directions laid down in Annex 3.  
 
6.4 Purchase/ sale of e quity instruments  of an Indian company or Units or 
contribution to capital of a LLP or a firm or a proprietary concern by Non-Resident 
Indian (NRI) or Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) on a Non- Repatriation basis is 
permitted as per the directions laid down in Annex 4.  
 
6.5 Investment in a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) is permitted as per the  
directions laid down in Annex 5.  
6.6 Investment by a Foreign Venture Capital Investor (FVCI) is permitted as per the 
directions laid down in Annex 6.  
 
6.7 Investment in an Investment Vehicle is permi tted as per the directions laid down 
in Annex 7.  
6.8 Issue/ transfer of eligible instruments to a foreign depository for the purpose of 
issuance of depository receipts by eligible person(s) is permitted as per the directions 
laid down in Annex 8.  
 
6.9 Purchase/ sale of Indian Depository Receipts (IDRs) issued by Companies 
Resident outside India is permitted as per directions laid down in Annex 9.  
 
6.10 Investment by other non- resident Investors as per the directions laid down in 
Annex 10 
 
6.11 Investment by Permissible Holder in Equity Shares of  Public Companies 
Incorporated in India and Listed on International Exchanges as per directions laid 
down in Annex 11.

[Page 15]
15  
 
6.12 Acquisition through rights issue or bonus issue 
  
6.12.1 A person resident outside India having investment in an Indian company is 
permitted to invest in the equity instruments  (other than share warrants) issue d by 
such company as a rights issue or a bonus issue subject to the following conditions:  
(1) The offer made by the Indian company is in compliance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013;  
(2) The issue does not result in a breach of the sectoral cap appl icable to the 
company;  
(3) The shareholding on the basis of which the rights issue or the bonus issue 
has been made must have been acquired and held as per the provisions of 
NDI Rules;  
(4) The equity instruments  (other than share warrants) acquired by the person 
resident outside India as bonus or rights issue will be subject to the same 
conditions including restrictions in regard to repatriability as applicabl e to the 
original holding against which rights or bonus issue has been made. Further, 
the nature of investment (FDI or FPI) shall remain the same as that of original 
investment against which rights were issued;  
(5) In case of a listed Indian company, the rights issued to persons resident 
outside India shall be at a price determined by the company;  
(6) In case of an unlisted Indian company, the rights issued to persons resident 
outside India should not be at a price less than the price offered to persons 
resident in India;  
(7) Such investment made through rights issue or bonus issue is subject to the 
conditions as are applicable at the time of such issue;  
(8) The amount of consideration may be paid as inward remittance from abroad 
through banking channels or out of funds  held in 2any repatriable foreign 
currency or Rupee  account maintained in accordance with the Foreign 
Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016;  
(9) If the original investment has been made on a non- repatriation basis, the 
amount of consideration may also be paid by debit to the NRO account 
maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Managem ent (Deposit) 
Regulations, 2016.  
 
6.12.2 An individual who is a person resident outside India exercising a right which 
was issued when he/ she was a person resident in India can hold the equity 
instruments so acquired on exercising the right on a non-repatriation basis.  
 
 
2 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to modification it read as 
“NRE/FCNR(B)”.

[Page 16]
16  
6.12.3 Indian company may issue equity instruments under Section 62(1)(a)(iii) of 
Companies Act, to a person resident outside India (other than an OCB). Such issue 
shall be subject to the adherence to entry routes, sectoral caps or inves tment limits, 
pricing guidelines and other attendant conditions as applicable for investment by a 
person resident outside India specified in the NDI Rules. 
 
6.12.4 Renunciation of rights 
1. A person resident in India and a person resident outside India may 
subscribe to additional shares over and above the shares offered on rights 
basis by the company and also re nounce the shares offered either in full or 
part thereof in favour of a person named by them. 
2. The facility at para 6.12.4(1) would not be available to investors who have 
been allotted such shares as Overseas Corporate Bodies (OCBs). 
3. A person resident outsi de India who has acquired a right from a person 
resident in or outside India, holding equity instruments on non- repatriation 
basis, who has renounced it, may acquire equity instruments (other than share 
warrants) on repatriable basis, against the said rights subject to the adherence 
to entry routes, sectoral caps or investment limits, pricing guidelines and other 
attendant conditions as applicable for investment by a person resident outside 
India specified in the NDI Rules; 
Provided that if the investment i s made by the person resident outside India 
using funds which are non- repatriable in nature, then such investments shall 
be held by such person resident outside India on non-repatriation basis. 
4. The equity instruments so acquired shall be subject to the sam e conditions as 
applicable to the original holding against which rights issue has been made 
except for the change in repatriability status resulting fr om investments made 
in terms of para 6.12.4(3) above. 
6.13 Issue of Employees Stock Options, sweat equity shares and Share Based 
Employee Benefits to persons resident outside India  
6.13.1 An Indian company may issue “employees’ stock option”, “sweat equit y 
shares”, and “Share Based Employee Benefits” to its employees or directors or 
employees or directors of  its holding company or joint venture or wholly owned 
overseas subsidiary or subsidiaries who are resident outside India: Provided that: 
1. The scheme has  been drawn either in terms of regulations issued under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 19 92 or the Companies (Share 
Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014 or as per other applicable law, as the 
case may be. 
2. The “employee’s stock option” or “sweat equity shares” or “Share Based 
Employee Benefits” so issued under the applicable rules or regulations are in 
compliance with the sectoral cap applicable to the said company 
3. The issue of “employee’s stock option” or “sweat equity shares” or “Share 
Based Employee Benefits” in a company where foreign investment is under 
the approval route shall require prior government approval

[Page 17]
17  
4. Issue of “employee’s stock option” or “sweat equity shares” or “Share Based 
Employee Benefits” to a citizen of Bangladesh or Pakistan shall require prior 
government approval. 
Note: Issue of “sweat equity shares” to a person resident ou tside India was 
permitted with effect from June 11, 2015. Issuance of equity instruments 
under any share- based employee benefit scheme, other than Emp loyees 
Stock Options and Sweat equity shares,  was permitted with effect from April 
12, 2022. 
6.13.2 An ind ividual who is a person resident outside India exercising an option 
which was issued when he/ she was a person resident in India shall hold the equity 
instruments so acquired on exercising the option on a non-repatriation basis. 
Note: The percentage of foreign investment shall be calculated on fully diluted basis, 
upfront, at the time of issuance/grant of Employee Stock Options, sweat equity 
shares and Share Based Employee Benefits to persons resident outside India. 
6.14 Issue of Convertible Notes by an Indian startup company 
6.14.1 A person resident outside India (other than an individual who is citizen of 
Pakistan or Bangladesh or an entity which is registered/ incorporated in Pakistan or 
Bangladesh), is permitted to invest in convertible notes issued by an Indian startup 
company for an amount of twenty five lakh rupees or more in a single tranche. 
6.14.2 A startup company, engaged in a sector where investment by a person 
resident outside India requires Government approval, can issue convertible notes to 
a person resident outside India only with such approval. 
6.14.3 Issue of equity shares against such convertible notes should be in compliance 
with the e ntry route, sectoral caps, pricing guidelines and other attendant conditions 
for foreign investment. 
6.14.4 The payment consideration can be received by inward remittance through 
banking channels or by debit to 3any repatriable foreign currency or Rupee account 
maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) 
Regulations, 2016. The escrow account maintained for this purpose should be closed 
immediately after the requirements are completed or within a period of six months, 
whichever is earlier. Such an escrow a ccount shall not be permitted to continue 
beyond a period of six months. 
6.14.5 An NRI or an OCI may acquire convertible notes on a non-repatriation basis in 
accordance with the instructions at para 6.4 of the Master Direction. 
6.14.6 A person resident out side India can acquire or transfer by way of sale, 
convertible notes, from or to, a person resident in or outside India, provided the 
transfer takes place in accordance with the entry routes and pricing guidelines laid 
down in this Master Direction. 
6.14.7 Convertible notes as an investment option was permitted for startup 
companies with effect from January 10, 2017. 
6.14.8 The convertible note may either be converted to equity shares or repaid within 
10 years from the date of the issue at the option of the holder. Repayment or sale 
 
3 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to modification it read as 
“the NRE/FCNR(B)/ Escrow”.

[Page 18]
18  
proceeds may be remitted outside India or credited to 4any repatriable foreign 
currency or Rupee account maintained by the person concerned in accordance with 
the Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016 
 
6.15 Merger or demerger or amalgamation of Indian companies 
6.15.1 Where a scheme of compromise or arrangement or merger or amalgamation 
of two or more Indian companies or a recons truction by way of demerger or 
otherwise of an Indian company, or transfer of undertaking of one or more Indian 
company to another Indian company, or involving division of one or more Indian 
company, has been approved by the National Company Law Tribunal ( NCLT) or 
other authority competent to do so by law, the transferee company or the new 
company, as the case may be, may issue equity instruments to the existing 
shareholders of the transferor company resident outside India, subject to the 
following conditions: 
1. The transfer or issue should comply with entry routes, sectoral caps or 
investment limits, as the case may be, and the attendant conditionalities of 
foreign investment  as well as reporting in form FC -GPR or FC -TRS as the 
case may be. 
2. In case the foreign investment is likely to breach the Sectoral caps or the 
attendant conditionalities, the transferor company or the transferee or the new 
company should obtain necessary Government approval. 
3. The transferor company or the transferee company or the new compan y 
should not be in a sector prohibited for foreign investment. 
4. In a scheme of compromise or arrangement or merger or amalgamation of two 
or more India n companies or a reconstruction by way of demerger or 
otherwise of an Indian company, where any of the companies involved is listed 
on a recognised stock exchange in India, the scheme of arrangement shall be 
in compliance with the SEBI (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirement) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time. 
  
7. Transfer of equity inst ruments of an Indian company by or to a person 
resident outside India  
A person resident outside India who has invested in equity instruments  of an Indian 
company or units in accordance with NDI Rules can transfer the equity instruments  
or units so held subject to the terms and conditions specified in this para.  
 
4 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to modification it read as 
“NRE/ FCNR(B)”.

[Page 19]
19  
7.1 Transfer from a person resident outside India by way of sale or gift to any 
person resident outside India  
7.1.1 A person resident outside India, not being an individual  or an overseas 
corporate body, may transfer by way of sale or gift the equity instruments  of an 
Indian company or units held by him to any person resident outside India.  
7.1.2 It shall also include transfer of equity instruments  of an Indian company 
pursuant to merger, de- merger and amalgamation of entities/ companies 
incorporated or registered outside India.  
7.1.3 Prior Government approval is required to be obtained for all cases wherever 
government approval is required. 
 
7.1.4 Where the person resident outside India is an FPI  and the acquisition of equity 
instruments made under para 6.2 of this Master Direction has resulted in a breac h of 
the applicable aggregate FPI limits or sectoral limits, the FPI is required to sell such 
equity instruments  within five trading days after s ettlement to a person resident in 
India eligible to hold such instruments. The breach of the said aggregate or sectoral 
limit on account of such acquisition for the period between the acquisition and sale, 
provided the sale is within the prescribed five tr ading days after settlement, will not 
be reckoned as a contravention under NDI Rules . The guidelines issued by SEBI in 
this regard shall be applicable. The reclassification of foreign portfolio investment of a 
foreign portfolio investor to FDI shall be in a ccordance with the framework issued by 
the RBI vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated November 11, 2024. 
 
7.2 Transfer by an overseas corporate body (OCB)  
An OCB may transfer equity instruments in accordance with the instructions given in 
the FAQs on de- recognition of OCBs is sued vide A.P (DIR Series) Circular No. 44 
dated December 8, 2003 read with AP (DIR Series) Circular No.14 dated September 
16, 2003.

[Page 20]
20  
 
7.3 Transfer by an individual person resident outside India including an NRI/ 
OCI by way of gift or sale to any person resident outside India  
7.3.1 An individual person resident outside India  holding equity instruments  of an 
Indian company or units on repatriation basis can transfer the same by way of sale 
or gift to any person resident outside India.  
7.3.2 Prior Government approval is required for any transfer in case the company is 
engaged in a sector which requires Government approval.  
7.3.3 Where the equity instruments acquired by an individual person resident outside 
India under the provisions o f para 6.3 of this Master Direction has resulted in a 
breach of the applicable individual or aggregate or sectoral limits, the individual 
person resident outside India shall be required to sell the  equity instruments  so 
acquired within five trading days after settlement to a person resident in India eligible 
to hold such instruments. The breach of the applicable individual or  aggregate or 
sectoral limit, as the case may be, on account of such acquis ition for the period 
between the acquisition and sale, provided the sale is within the prescribed five 
trading days after settlement, shall not be reckoned as a contravention under  NDI 
Rules. In case the total holding of an individual person resident outside India 
increases to 10 percent or more of the total paid- up equity capital on a fully diluted 
basis or 10 per cent or more of the paid- up value of each series of debentures or 
preference shares or warrants issued by a listed Indian company,  the entire 
investment of an individual person resident outside India shall be re-classified as FDI 
in accordance with the framework issued by the RBI for foreign portfolio investors 
(FPIs) vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated November 11, 2024.  
7.3.4 Transfer made to an individual person resident outside India which results in 
transfer of ownership or control of the listed Indian company to entities or citizens of 
a country which shares land border with India or where the beneficial o wner of such 
investment is a citizen of any such country, shall require the prior approval of the 
Government. Where; 
a) ‘ownership’ shall have the same meaning as defined under para 9.1.1 of these 
directions. 
b) ‘beneficial owner’ shall have the same meaning as  assigned to it  in clause 
(fa) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Prevention of Money -laundering Act, 
2002 (15 of 2003), and shall be determined as per the criteria specified 
under sub-rule (3)  of rule 9 of the Prevention of Money -laundering 
(Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005, made under the said Act.

[Page 21]
21  
7.4 Transfer by a NRI/ OCI holding equity instruments  on a non- repatriable 
basis or a person resident in India by way of sale to any person resident 
outside India  
7.4.1 A person resident in India holding equity instruments  of an Indian com pany or 
units, or an NRI or an OCI or a company/ trust/ partnership firm incorporated outside 
India and owned and controlled by NRIs or OCIs holding equity instruments of an 
Indian company or units on a non- repatriation basis, may transfer the same to a 
person resident outside India by way of sale, subject to the adherence to entry 
routes, sectoral caps/ investment limits, pricing guidelines and other attendant 
conditions as applicable for foreign investment and documentation and reporting 
requirements for such transfers.  
7.4.2 The entry routes, sectoral caps/ investment limits, pricing guidelines and other 
attendant conditions, however, will not apply in case the transferee is an NRI or an 
OCI or a company/ trust/ partnership firm incorporated outside Indi a and owned and 
controlled by NRIs or OCIs acquiring such investment on a non-repatriation basis.  
 
7.5 Transfer by an NRI/ OCI holding equity instrum ents on a non- repatriable 
basis by way of gift to another NRI/ OCI who will hold such equity instruments  
on a non-repatriable basis  
7.5.1 An NRI or an OCI or a company/ trust/ partnership firm incorporated outside 
India and owned and controlled by NRIs or  OCIs holding equity instruments of an 
Indian company or units on a non- repatriation basis, is permitted t o transfer the 
same by way of gift to an NRI or an OCI or a company/ trust/ partnership firm 
incorporated outside India and owned and controlled by NR Is or OCIs and the the 
transferee shall hold them on a non-repatriable basis.  
  
7.6 Transfer by person resident outside India to person resident in India or sale 
on recognised stock exchange in India  
7.6.1 A person resident outside India, holding equity instruments of an Indian 
company or units in accordance with NDI Rules is permitted to transfer the same to a 
person resident in India by way of sale/ gift or may sell the same on a recognised 
stock exchange in India in the manner prescribed by SEBI.  
7.6.2 The transfer by way of sale is required to be in compliance with and is subject 
to the adherence to pri cing guidelines, documentation and reporting requirements 
prescribed for such transfers.  
7.6.3 Where the equity instruments are held by the person res ident outside India on 
a non-repatriable basis, conditions at 7.6.2 above will not apply.

[Page 22]
22  
 
7.7 Transfer by way of gift by an NRI/ OCI holding securities on a non-
repatriable basis or a resident to a person resident outside India  
7.7.1 An NRI or an OCI holding securities of an Indian company on a non-
repatriation basis or a person resident in India may trans fer the securities so held by 
them to a person resident outside India by way of gift with the prior approval of the 
RBI and subject to the following conditions:  
(a) The donee is eligible to hold the securities under NDI Rules;  
(b) The gift does not exceed 5 perc ent of the paid up capital of the Indian 
company/ each series of debentures/ each mutual fund scheme; this limit is a 
cumulative limit for a donor to one particular donee.  
(c) The applicable sectoral cap in the Indian company is not breached;  
(d) The donor and t he donee are relatives as defined in section 2(77) of the 
Companies Act, 2013;  
(e) The value of security to be transferred by the donor together with any security 
transferred to any person residing outside India as gift during the financial 
year does not exceed the rupee equivalent of USD 50,000;  
(f) The application shall be made through an Authorised Dealer bank to the 
Regional Office concerned of the RBI  under whose jurisdiction the Registered 
office of the company operates.  
 
7.8 Transfer by a person resident o utside India of equity instruments  
containing an optionality clause  
7.8.1 A person resident outside India holding equity instruments  of an Indian 
company containing an optionality clause in accordance with NDI Rules  and 
exercising the option/ right, can exit without any assured return, subject to the pricing 
guidelines prescribed under NDI Rules and a minimum lock -in period of one year or 
minimum lock-in period under NDI Rules, whichever is higher.  
 
7.9 Transfer of equity instruments on deferred payment b asis, and/or, under 
indemnification/escrow, arrangement  
7.9.1 In case of transfer of equity instruments between a person resident in India and 
a person resident outside India, an amount not exceeding twenty five per cent of the 
total consideration, 
a. can be paid by the buyer on a deferred basis within a period not exceeding 
eighteen months from the date of the transfer agreement; or 
b. can be settled through an escrow arrangement between the buyer and the 
seller for a period not exceeding eighteen months from t he date of the transfer 
agreement; or 
c. can be indemnified by the seller for a period not exceeding eighteen months 
from the date of the payment of the full consideration, if the total consideration 
has been paid by the buyer to the seller.

[Page 23]
23  
Note: A transact ion intended to be undertaken using above arrangement(s) 
shall require the share purchase/transfer agreement to contain the respective 
clause and related conditions for such arrangement. 
7.9.2 The total consideration finally paid for the shares must be com pliant with the 
applicable pricing guidelines. 
 
7.10 Opening of Escrow account  
7.10.1 In case of transfer of equity instruments  between a person resident in India 
and a person resident outside India, the person resident outside India is permitted to 
open an Escrow account in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Deposit) Regulations, 2016.  
7.10.2 Such Escrow account can be funded by way of inward remittance through 
banking channels and/ or by way of guarantee issued by an authorized dealer bank, 
subject to terms and conditions as specified in the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Guarantees) Regulations, 2000.  
 
7.10.3 Where the transaction is governed by SEBI guidelines/ regulations, operation 
of the Escrow accounts for securities shall be in accordance with the relevant SEBI 
regulations, if any.  
 
7.11 Transfer by way of pledge  
7.11.1 Any per son being a promoter of a company registered in India (borrowing 
company), which has raised external commercial borrowing (ECB) in compliance 
with the Foreign Exchange Management (Borrowing and Lending in Foreign 
Exchange) Regulations, 2000 may pledge the e quity instruments  of the borrowing 
company or that of its associate resident companies for the purpose of securing the 
ECB raised by the borrowing company subject to the following conditions:  
(a) the period of such pledge shall be co- terminus with the maturi ty of the 
underlying ECB;  
(b) in case of invocation of pledge, transfer shall be in accordance with rules laid 
down in NDI Rules;  
(c) the Statutory Auditor has certified that the borrowing company will utilise/ has 
utilised the proceeds of the ECB for the permitted end-use/s only;  
(d) no person shall pledge any such equity instruments unless a no-objection has 
been obtained from an Authorised Dealer bank that the  above conditions 
have been complied with.  
7.11.2 Any person resident outside India holding equity instr uments in an Indian 
company or units may pledge the equity instruments or units, as the case may be:  
(a) In favour of a bank in India to secure the credit  facilities being extended to 
such Indian company for bona- fide purposes subject to the following 
conditions:  
(i) in case of invocation of pledge, transfer should be in accordance with 
instructions in vogue at the time of creation of pledge;

[Page 24]
24  
(ii) submission of a declaration/ annual certificate from the statutory auditor 
of the investee company that the loan proceeds  will be/ have been 
utilized for the declared purpose;  
(iii) the Indian company has to follow the relevant SEBI disclosure norms, if 
any; and  
(iv) pledge in favour of the lender (bank) would be subject to compliance 
with the Section 19 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.  
(v) the conditions at (i) to (iv) above will apply suitably for units.  
 
(b) In favour of an overseas bank to secure the credit facilities being extended to 
such person or a person resident outside India who is the promoter of such 
Indian company or the overseas group company of such Indian company, 
subject to the following conditions:  
(i) loan is availed only from an overseas bank;  
(ii) loan is utilized for genuine business purposes overseas and not for any 
investments either directly or indirectly in India;  
(iii) overseas investment should not result in any capital inflow into India;  
(iv) in case of invocation of pledge, transfer should be in accordance with 
the policy in vogue at the time of creation of pledge; and  
(v) submission of a declaration/ annual certificate from a Chartered 
Accountant/ Certified Public Accountant of the non- resident borrower 
that the loan proceeds will be/ have been utilized for the declared 
purpose;  
(vi) the conditions at (i) to (v) above will apply suitably for units.  
 
(c) In favour of a Non- Banking Fina ncial Company registered with the RBI  to 
secure the credit facilities being extended to such Indian company for bona 
fide purposes, subject to the following conditions:  
(i) in case of invocation of pledge, transfer of equity instruments  should be 
in accordance with the credit concentration norm as stated in the Master 
Direction – Non-Banking Financial Company – Non-Systemically 
Important Non -Deposit taking Company (Reserve Bank)  Directions, 
2016 (Para 22) and Master Direction – Non-Banking Financial Company 
- Systemically Im portant Non- Deposit taking  Company and Deposit 
taking Company (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016 (Para 22)  
(ii) T he AD may obtain a board resolution ‘ex ante’, passed by the Board of 
Directors of the investee company, t hat the loan proceeds received 
consequent to pledge of equity instruments  will be utilised by the 
investee company for the declared purpose;  
(iii) t he AD may also obtain a certificate ‘ex post’, from the statutory auditor 
of investee company, that the loan proceeds received consequent to 
pledge of shares, have been utilised by the investee company for the 
declared purpose;

[Page 25]
25  
(iv) the Indian company has to follow the relevant SEBI disclosure norms, as 
applicable;  
(v) under no circumstances, the credit concentration norms  should be 
breached by the NBFC. If there is a breach on invocation of pledge, the 
equity instruments should be sold and the breach shall be rectified within 
a period of 30 days from the date of invocation of pledge.  
 
7.11.2.1 The Authorised Dealer bank s hould satisfy itself of the compliance of the 
stipulated conditions.  
a) Equity instruments of an Indian company or units transferred by way of 
pledge should be unencumbered.  
b) The company shall obtain no- objection certificate from the existing 
lenders, if any.  
c) In case of invocation of pledge, transfer of equity instruments  of an 
Indian company or units pledged shall be in accordance with entry 
routes, sect oral caps/ investment limits, pricing guidelines and other 
attendant conditions at the time of creation of pledge.  
 
7.11.3 Any other transfer by way of pledge would require the prior approval of the 
RBI. Cases may be forwarded to the RBI with the following documents:  
(a) A copy of the Board Resolution passed by the non- resident 
company/ies approving the pledge of secur ity acquired in terms of NDI 
Rules (number/ percentage of securities to be pledged) of Investee 
Company held by them for securing the loan facility in  favour of the 
lender/s.  
(b) A copy of the Board Resolution passed by the investee company 
approving pledge of securities acquired in terms of NDI Rules  in favour 
of the lender for the loan facility availed by the investee company.  
(c) A copy of the loan agreement/ pledge agreement containing security 
clause duly certified by the company secretary, requiring the pl edge of 
shares of Investee Company.  
(d) The details of the facility availed/ proposed to be availed.  
(e) The details of reporting of the acquisition of the s ecurity as prescribed 
in terms of NDI Rules, if any.  
 
7.12. Transfer from a resident to a person residen t outside India where the 
investee company is in the financial sector  
In case of transfer of equity instruments of a company in the financial sector f rom a 
resident to a person resident outside India, 'fit and proper/ due diligence' requirement 
as regards the non-resident investor as stipulated by the respective financial sector 
regulator shall have to be complied with by the AD bank.

[Page 26]
26  
7.13 Mode of payment  
7.13.1 The amount of consideration for transfer of equity instruments  between a 
person resident in India and a person resident outside India should be received from 
abroad or remitted from India, as the case may be, through banking channels in 
India or paid out from or received in, as the case may be, 5any repatriable foreign 
currency or Rupee account  ma intained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange 
Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.  
7.13.2 In case an investment is held on a non-repatriation basis, in addition to 7.13.1 
above, the amount of consideration for transfer may be paid out from or received in, 
as the case may be, NRO account maintained in accordance with t he Foreign 
Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.  
7.14 Transfer by way of swap of equity instruments and equity capital 
The transfer of equity instruments of an Indian company between a person resident 
in India and a person resident outside India may be by way of– 
a.      swap of equity instruments, in compliance with the rules prescribed 
by the Central Government and the regulations specified by the 
Reserve Bank from time to time;  
b.      swap of equity capital of a foreign company in compliance with the 
rules prescribed by the Central Government including the Foreign 
Exchange Management, (Overseas Investment) Rules, 2022, and 
the regulations specified by the Reserve Bank from time to time:  
Provided that prior Government approval shall be obtained for transfer in all cases 
wherever Government approval is applicable.  
Explanation. – For the purposes of this clause, the expression “equity capital” shall 
have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Overseas Investment) Rules, 2022, as amended from time to time. 
 
8. Pricing guidelines  
8.1 Equity instruments issued by a company to a person resident outside India  
8.1.1 The price of equity instrume nts of an Indian company issued by it to a person 
resident outside India should not be less than:  
(a) the price worked out in accordance with the relevant SEBI guidelines in case 
of a listed Indian company or in case of a company going through a delisting 
process as per the SEBI (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; or  
(b) the valuation of equity instrume nts done as per any internationally accepted 
pricing methodology for valuation on an arm’s length basis duly certified by a 
 
5 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to modification it read as 
“NRE/FCNR(B)/ Escrow accounts”.

[Page 27]
27  
Chartered Accountant or a S EBI registered Merchant Banker or a practicing 
Cost Accountant, in case of an unlisted Indian Company.  
8.1.2 In case of convertible equity instruments , the price/ conversion formula of the 
instrument is required to be determined upfront at the time of issue of the instrument. 
The price at the time of conversion should not in any case be lower than the fair 
value worked out, at the time of issuance of such instruments, in accordance with 
the extant FEMA rules.  
 
8.2 Equity instruments  transferred by a perso n resident in India to a person 
resident outside India  
The price of equity instruments  of an Indian compa ny transferred by a person 
resident in India to a person resident outside India should not be less than:  
(a) the price worked out in accordance with the relevant SEBI guidelines in case 
of a listed Indian company; or  
(b) the price at which a preferential allotm ent of shares can be made under the 
SEBI Guidelines, as applicable, in case of a listed Indian company or in case 
of a company going through a delistin g process as per the SEBI (Delisting of 
Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009. The price should be determined f or such 
duration as specified in the SEBI Guidelines, preceding the relevant date, 
which shall be the date of purchase or sale of shares. In case of a  company 
which has completed a delisting process, the price as determined for such 
duration as specified in the SEBI Guidelines will apply for those shares which 
have not been tendered to the company during the delisting process; or  
(c) the valuation of equit y instruments done as per any internationally accepted 
pricing methodology for valuation on an arm’s leng th basis duly certified by a 
Chartered Accountant or a SEBI registered Merchant Banker or a practicing 
Cost Accountant, in case of an unlisted Indian Company.  
 
8.3 Equity instruments  transferred by a person resident outside India to a 
person resident in India  
8.3.1 The price of equity instruments of an Indian company transferred by a person 
resident outside India to a person resident in India should not exceed:  
(a) the price worked out in accordance with the relevant SEBI guidelines in case 
of a listed Indian company;  
(b) the price at which a preferential allotment of shares can be made under the 
SEBI Guidelines, as applicable, in case of a listed Indian comp any or in case 
of a company going through a delisting process as per the SEBI (Delisting of 
Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009. The price is determined for such duration 
as specified in the SEBI Guidelines, preceding the relevant date, which shall 
be the date of purchase or sale of shares;  
(c) the valuation of equity instruments  done as per any internationally acc epted 
pricing methodology for valuation on an arm’s length basis duly certified by a

[Page 28]
28  
Chartered Accountant or a SEBI registered Merchant Banker or a practicing 
Cost Accountant, in case of an unlisted Indian Company.  
8.3.2 The guiding principle would be that  the person resident outside India is not 
guaranteed any assured exit price at the time of making such investment/ agreement 
and shall exit at the price prevailing at the time of exit.  
 
8.4 Swap of equity instruments  
In case of swap of equity instrument s, irrespective of the amount, valuation will have 
to be made by a Merchant Banker registered with SEBI or an Investment Banker 
outside India registered with the appropriate regulatory authority in the host country.  
8.5 Subscription to Memorandum of Association  
Where shares in an Indian company are issued to a person resident outside India in 
compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, by way of subscription 
to Memorandum of Association, such investments shall be made at face value 
subject to entry route and sectoral caps.  
8.6 Partly paid shares  
The pricing of the partly paid equity shares shall be determined upfront.  
 
8.7 Share warrants  
8.7.1 In case of share warrants, their pricing and the price/ conversion formula shall 
be determined upfront.  
8.7.2 The price at the time of conversion should not in any case be lower than the 
fair value worked out, at the time of issuance of such warrants.  
8.8 Investment in an LLP  
Investment in an LLP either by way of capital contribution or by way of  acquisition/ 
transfer of profit shares, should not be less than the fair price worked out as per any 
valuation norm which is internationally accepted/  adopted as per market practice 
(hereinafter referred to as "fair price of capital contribution/ profit s hare of an LLP") 
and a valuation certificate to that effect should be issued by a Chartered Accountant 
or by a practicing Cost Accountant or by an appr oved valuer from the panel 
maintained by the Central Government.  
8.9 Transfer of capital contribution/ profit share of an LLP  
8.9.1 In case of transfer of capital contribution/ profit share of an LLP from a person 
resident in India to a person resident outside India, the transfer should be for a 
consideration not less than the fair price of capital contribut ion/ profit share of an 
LLP.  
8.9.2 In case of transfer of capital contribution/ profit share of an LLP from a person 
resident outside India to a pers on resident in India, the transfer should be for a 
consideration which is not more than the fair price of  the capital contribution/ profit 
share of an LLP.

[Page 29]
29  
8.10 Non-applicability of pricing guidelines  
8.10.1 The pricing guidelines will not apply for investment in equity instruments  by a 
person resident outside India on non-repatriation basis.  
8.10.2 The pricing guidelines will not be applicable for any transfer by way of sale 
done in accordance with SEBI regulations where the pricing is prescribed by SEBI. A 
Chartered Accountant’s Certificate to the effect that relevant SEBI regulations/ 
guidelines have been complied with has to be attached to the form FC-TRS filed with 
the AD bank. 
8.11 Validity of valuation certificate 
The valuation certificate issued by a Chartered Accountant or a SEBI registered 
Merchant Banker or a practicing Cost Accountant, for appl ication of pricing 
guidelines, must not be more than ninety days old as on the date of the investment; 
Provided the above shall not apply in case where  the price is determined in 
accordance with SEBI guidelines. 
9. Downstream Investment  
The guiding princi ple of the downstream investment guidelines is that “what cannot 
be done directly, shall not be done indirectly”. Accordingly, downstream investments 
which are treated as indirect foreign investment are subject to the entry routes, 
sectoral caps or the inv estment limits, as the case may be, pricing guidelines, and 
the attendant conditionalities for such investment as laid down in the NDI Rules. 
Note: Based on the guiding principle  of the downstream investment, the 
arrangements which are available for direct  investment under the Rules such as 
investment by way of swap of equity instruments/equity capital, payment 
arrangements/mechanism as per Rule 9(6) of the Rules etc, shall also be available 
for the purpose of downstream investment provided that the transac tion does not 
circumvent the provisions contained in Rule 23 of the Rules, including the 
restrictions on use of borrowed funds for downstream investment. 
 
9.1 Definitions  
9.1.1 ‘Ownership of an Indian company’ is the beneficial holding of more than 50 
percent of the equity instruments of such company.  
9.1.2 ‘Ownership of an LLP’ is the contribution of more than 50 percent in its capital 
and having majority profit share.  
9.1.3 ‘Company owned by resident Indian citizens’ is an Indian company where 
ownership is vested in resident Indian citizens and/ or Indian companies, which are 
ultimately owned and controlled by resident Indian citizens.  
9.1.4 An ‘LLP  owned by resident Indian citizens’ is an LLP where ownership is 
vested in resident Indian citizens and/ or Indian entities, which are ultimately owned 
and controlled by resident Indian citizens.  
9.1.5 ‘Company owned by persons resident outside India’ is an Indian company 
whose ownership is vested in persons resident outside India.

[Page 30]
30  
9.1.6 An ‘LLP owned by per sons resident outside India’ is an LLP whose ownership 
is vested with persons resident outside India.  
9.1.7 ‘Control’ of a company is the right to appoint majority of the directors or to 
control the management or policy decisions including by virtue of t heir shareholding 
or management rights or shareholders agreement or voting agreement.  
9.1.8 For the purpose of LLP, ‘Control’ is the right to appoint majority of the 
designated partners, where such designated partners, with specific exclusion to 
others, have control over all the policies of an LLP.  
9.1.9 ‘Company controlled by resident Indian citizens’ is an Indian company, the 
control of which is vest ed in resident Indian citizens and/ or Indian companies which 
are ultimately owned and controlled by resident Indian citizens.  
9.1.10 An ‘LLP controlled by resident Indian citizens’ is an LLP, the control of which 
is vested in resident Indian citizens and/ or Indian entities, which are ultimately 
owned and controlled by resident Indian citizens.  
9.1.11 ‘Company controlled by persons resident outside India’ is an Indian company 
the control of which is vested with persons resident outside India.  
9.1.12 An ‘LLP controlled by persons resident outside India’ is an LLP the control of 
which is vested with persons resident outside India.  
9.1.13 ‘Downstream Investment’ is investment made by an Indian entity which has 
received foreign investment or an Investment Vehicle in the equity instruments or the 
capital, as the case may be, of another Indian entity.  
9.1.14 ‘Holding Company’ will have the same meaning as defined in Companies Act, 
2013.  
9.1.15 ‘Indirect Foreign Investment’ is downstream investment received by an Indian 
entity from:  
(a) another Indian entity (IE) which has received foreign investment and which is 
not owned and not controlled by resident Indian citizens or is owned or 
controlled by persons resident outside India; or  
(b) an investment vehicle whose sp onsor or manager or investment manager is 
not owned and not controlled by resident Indian citizens or is owned or 
controlled by persons resident outside India. If sponsor or manager or 
investment manager is organised in a form other than companies or LLPs,  
SEBI shall determine whether the sponsor or manager or investment 
manager is foreign owned and controlled. 
[Explanation 1: For cases where the original investment made in the investee 
entity was made as a resident but later the investor entity becomes owned 
and/or controlled by persons resident outside, the same shall be reckoned as 
downstream investment from  the date on which the investor entity is owned 
and/or controlled by persons resident outside India. Such downstream 
investment shall be in compliance with the applicable entry route and sectoral

[Page 31]
31  
cap and shall require to be reported by the investor entity  within 30 days from 
the date of such reclassification in form DI] 
[Explanation 2: The investments made by NRIs/OCIs on non- repatriation 
basis is treat ed as deemed domestic investment. Accordingly, an investment 
made by an Indian entity which is owned and controlled by a Non -Resident 
Indian or an Overseas Citizen of India including a company, a trust and a 
partnership firm incorporated outside India and owned and controlled by a 
Non-Resident Indian or an Overseas Citizen of India, on a non- repatriation 
basis in compliance with Schedule IV of these rules, shall not be considered 
for calculation of indirect foreign investment. 
9.1.16 ‘Total Foreign Investment’ is the sum of foreign investment and indirect 
foreign investment which will be reckoned on a fully diluted basis;  
9.1.17 ‘Strategic downstream investment’ means downstream investment by banking 
companies incorporated in India in their subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.  
 
9.2 Prohibition  
9.2.1 No person resident in India other than an Indian ent ity can receive Indirect 
Foreign Investment.  
 
9.3 Conditions for downstream investment that is treated as Indirect Foreign 
Investment for the investee Indian Entity  
9.3.1 An Indian entity which has received indirect foreign investment is required to 
comply with the entry route, sectoral caps, pricing guidelines and other FDI linked 
performance conditions as applicable for foreign investment.  
9.3.2 Downstream investment by an LLP which has received foreign investment and 
is not owned and not controlled  by resident Indian citizens or owned or controlled by 
persons resident outside India is allowed in an Indian company operating in sectors 
where foreign investment up to 100 percent is permitted under automatic route and 
there are no FDI linked performance conditions.  
9.3.3 Indirect foreign Investment is permitted in an LLP in sectors where foreign 
investment is allowed 100% under automatic route and there are no FDI linked 
performance conditions.  
9.3.4 If the sponsors/ managers/ investment managers of an investment vehicle are 
individuals, for the downstream investment made by such investment vehicle not to 
be considered as Indirect Foreign Investment for the investee, the sponsors/ 
managers/ investment managers of the investment vehicle should be resident Indian 
citizens. In case the sponsor/ manager/ investment manager is organised in any 
other form, SEBI will determine whether it is foreign owned and/ or controlled or not.

[Page 32]
32  
9.3.5 The downstream investment that is treated as  Indirect Foreign Investment f or 
the investee Indian entity should have the approval of the Board of Directors as also 
a Shareholders' Agreement, if any, of the investing Indian entity.  
9.3.6 The Indian entity making the downstream investment that is treated as Indirect 
Foreign Investment for the investee Indian entity is required to bring in the requisite 
funds from abroad and not use funds borrowed in the domestic markets. 
Subscription by persons resident outside India to non- convertible debentures issued 
by an Indian company will not b e construed as funds borrowed/ leveraged in the 
domestic market. However, raising of debt and its utilisation will have to comply with 
the Act and the rules or regulations made thereunder.  
9.3.7 Downstream investments which is treated as Indirect Forei gn Investment for 
the investee Indian entity can be made through internal accruals. For this purpose, 
internal accruals will mean profits transferred t o reserve account after payment of 
taxes.  
9.3.8 When a company which does not have any operations makes dow nstream 
investment which is treated as Indirect Foreign Investment for the investee Indian 
entity or commences business(s), it will have to comply w ith the relevant sectoral 
conditions on entry route, conditionalities and caps.  
 
9.4 Downstream investm ent/s under Corporate Debt Restructuring (CDR), 
mechanism  
9.4.1 With effect from July 31, 2012, downstream investment/s made by a banking 
company (as defined in clause (c) of section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, 
incorporated in India) which is not o wned and not controlled by resident Indian 
citizens or is owned or controlled by persons resident outside India, under Corporate 
Debt Restructuring (CDR), or other loan restructuring mechanism, or in trading book, 
or for acquisition of shares due to defaults in loans, will not be considered as indirect 
foreign investment.  
9.4.2 Strategic downstream investment by a banking company referred to at 9.4. 1 
above will be considered as indirect foreign investment for the investee company.  
 
9.5. Guidelines for calculation of total foreign investment in Indian companies  
9.5.1 Any equity holding by a person resident outside India resulting from conversion 
of any debt instrument under any arrangement shall be reckoned for total foreign 
investment.  
9.5.2 FCCBs and DRs having underlying of instruments in the nature of debt will not 
be reckoned for total foreign investment.

[Page 33]
33  
9.5.3 The methodology for calculating total foreign investment would apply at every 
stage of investment in Indian companies and thus in each and ev ery Indian 
company.  
9.5.4 For the purpose of downstream investment, the portfolio investment held as on 
March 31 of the previous financial year in the Indian company making the 
downstream investment will be considered for computing the total foreign investment 
of the investee Indian entity.  
9.5.5 The indirect foreign investment received by a wholly owned subsidiary of an 
Indian company will be limi ted to the total foreign investment received by the 
company making the downstream investment  
 
9.6 Conditions for exit  
9.6.1 Equity instrument of an Indian company held by another Indian company which 
has received foreign investment and is not owned and n ot controlled by resident 
Indian citizens or is owned or controlled by persons resident outside India may  be 
transferred to:  
(a) a person resident outside India, subject to reporting requirements in Form 
FCTRS. However, pricing guidelines will not apply for such a transfer.  
(b) a person resident in India subject to adherence to pricing guidelines.  
(c) an Indian company wi th foreign investment and not owned and not controlled 
by resident Indian citizens or owned or controlled by persons resident outside 
India. Pricing and reporting guidelines will not apply.  
9.6.2 The instructions at 9.6.1 above will be construed accordingly for an LLP.  
 
9.7 Responsibility for compliance  
9.7.1 The first level Indian company making downstream investment will be 
responsible for ensur ing compliance with the provisions of these rules for the 
downstream investment made by it at second level and so on and so forth. Such first 
level company shall obtain a certificate to this effect from its statutory auditor on an 
annual basis. Such compli ance of FEMA provisions shall be mentioned in the 
Director's report in the Annual Report of the Indian company.  
9.7.2 In case the statutory auditor has given a qualified report, the same should be 
immediately brought to the notice of the Regional Office of the RBI  in whose 
jurisdiction the Registered Office of the company is located and shall also obtain 
acknowledgement from the RO.  
9.7.3 The instructions at 9.7.1 above will be construed accordingly for an LLP

[Page 34]
34  
 
9.8 Applicability of downstream investment guidelines  
9.8.1 Downstream investment which is treated as indirect foreign investment for the 
investee Indian entity made prior to February 13, 2009 would not require any 
modification to conform to NDI Rules . All other investments, after the said date, 
would come under its ambit.  
9.8.2 Downstream investments which is treated as indirect foreign investment for the 
investee Indian entity made between February 13, 2009 and June 21, 2013 which 
was not in conformity with the downstream investment guidelines s hould have been 
intimated to the RBI by October 3, 2013 for treating such cases as compliant with 
NDI Rules.  
 
10. Taxes and remittance of sale proceeds  
10.1 Taxes  
10.1.1 All transaction relating to foreign investment in India are required to be 
undertaken through banking channels in India and are subject to payment of 
applicable taxes and other duties/ levies in India.  
10.2 Remittance of sale proceeds  
10.2.1 Remittance of sale proceeds of an Indian security held by a person resident 
outside India will have to be made only in accordance with NDI Rules.  
10.2.2 An authorised dealer bank may permit the remit tance of sale proceeds of a 
security (net of applicable taxes) to the seller resident outside India provided:  
(a) the security was held by the seller on repatriation basis; and  
(b) either the security has been sold in compliance with the pricing guidelines or 
the RBI's approval has been obtained in other cases for sale of the security 
and remittance of the sale proceeds thereof.  
11. References to the Reserve Bank 
Any requests for clarification pertaining to foreign investment framework may 
be made to the Authori zed Dealer (AD) bank concerned. The AD bank may, if 
required, forward the request to the concerned Regional Office of Reserve 
Bank for guidance. Such r epresentation shall be routed through a nodal office 
of the AD bank specifically designated for this purpose,  along with specific 
recommendation/ observations, FEMA provisions, reason for submission to 
Reserve Bank and relevant documents. The jurisdiction of a regional office of 
Reserve Bank shall be as per the registered office of the Indian investee 
entity.

[Page 35]
35  
Annex 1 
Purchase/ Sale of equity instruments of an Indian company  
by a person resident outside India 
 
1. Purchase/ sale of equity i nstruments of an Indian company by a person 
resident outside India  
1.1 Issue by an Indian company  
An In dian company is permitted to issue equity instruments  to a person resident 
outside India subject to entry routes, sectoral caps and attendant conditionalities 
specified for foreign investment;  
 
1.2 Purchase on a stock exchange in India  
A person resident outside India may pur chase equity instruments of a listed Indian 
company on a stock exchange in India provided:  
(a) The person resident outside India making the investment has already 
acquired control of such company in accordance with SEBI (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 2011 and continues to hold 
such control;  
(b) The amount of consideration is paid as per the mode of payment pr escribed 
in this annex or out of the dividend payable by the Indian investee company in 
which the person resident outside India has acquired and continues to hold 
control in accordance with SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeover) Regulations,  2011, provided the right to receive dividend is 
established and the dividend amount has been credited to  an SNRR account 
opened in terms of Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 
2016 f or acquisition of shares on the recognised stock exchange.  
 
1.3 Issue by a wholly owned subsidiary  
1.3.1 A wholly owned subsidiary set up in India by a non- resident entity, operating in 
a sector where 100 percent foreign investment is allowed under the automatic route 
and there are no FDI linked performance conditions, may issue equity instruments to 
the said non- resident entity against pre- incorporation/ preoperative expenses 
incurred by the said non- resident entity up to a limit of  five per cent of its authorised 
capital (as defined in the Companies Act, 2013) or USD 500,000 whichever  is less, 
subject to the following conditions:  
(a) Form FC -GPR, as prescribed in the Master Direction on Reporting as 
amended from time to time, is filed by the Indian company within thirty days 
from the date of issue of equity instruments  but not later than one year from 
the date of incorporation.  
(b) A certificate issued by the statutory auditor of the Indian company that the 
amount of pre- incorporation/ pre- operative expenses against which equity 
instruments have been issued has been utilized for the purpose for which it 
was received should be submitted with the Form FC-GPR.

[Page 36]
36  
1.3.2 Pre-incorporation/ pre-operative expenses will include amounts remitted to t he 
investee Company’s account or to the investor’s account in India if it exists or to any 
consultant or attorney or to any ot her material/ service provider for expenditure 
relating to incorporation or necessary for commencement of operations.  
 
1.4 Other modes of issue  
1.4.1 An Indian company may issue equity shares (excluding partly paid shares) to a 
person resident outside India against any funds payable by it to such person, the 
remittance of which is permitted under the Act or the rules or the regulat ions framed 
or directions issued thereunder or does not require prior permission of the Central 
Government or the RBI under the Act or the rules or the regulations framed or 
directions issued thereunder subject to the following conditions:  
(a) Issue of such s hares that require Government approval  or import dues 
deemed as ECB or trade credit or payables against i mport of second hand 
machinery will be dealt in accordance with respective guidelines;  
(b) The issue of such shares under this provision shall be subject to tax laws as 
applicable to the funds payable and the conversion to equity should be net of 
applicable taxes  
1.4.2 An Indian company may issue equity shares (other than partly paid shares) to 
a person resident outside India against any funds payable by i t to such person, the 
remittance of which has been permitted by the RBI  under the Act or the rules or the  
regulations framed or directions issued thereunder.  
1.4.3 In case where permission has been granted by the RBI  for making remittance 
as stated at 1.4. 2 above, the Indian company may issue equity shares (other than 
partly paid shares) against such remittance provided all regulatory actions with 
respect to the delay or contravention under the Act or the rules or the regulations 
framed thereunder have been completed.  
1.4.4 An Indian company may issue equity instruments to a person resident outside 
India subject to compliance with the rules prescribed by the Central Government and 
the regulations specified by the Reserve Bank from time to time, against:  
(a) Swap of equity instruments;  
(b) Swap of equity capital of a foreign company in compliance with the rules 
prescribed by the Central Government including Foreign Exchange Management, 
(Overseas Investment) Rules 2022, and the regulations specified by the Reserve 
Bank from time to time. 
Explanation. – For the purposes of this clause, the expression “equity capital” 
shall have the sam e meaning as assigned to it in the Foreign Exchange 
Management, (Overseas Investment) Rules, 2022, as amended from time to time.

[Page 37]
37  
(c) Import of capital goods/ machinery/ equipment (excluding second- hand 
machinery) subject to the following conditions: 
(i) The import of capital goods, machineries, etc., made by a person 
resident in India, is in accordance with the Foreign Trade Policy notif ied 
by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) and the regulations 
on imports issued under the Act;  
(ii) There is an independent valuation of the capital goods/ machineries/ 
equipment by a third party entity, preferably an independent valuer from 
the country of import along with production of copies of documents/ 
certificates issued by the customs authorities towards assessme nt of the 
fair-value of such imports;  
(iii) In case of applications submitted for Government approval:  
a) The applications should be accompanied by documents evidencing 
1.4.4(c)(ii) above and a special resolution of the company;  
b) The application should clearly in dicate the beneficial ownership and 
identity of the importer company as well as the overseas entity; and  
c) Applications (complete in all respects) for capitalization should be 
submitted within 180 days from the date of shipment of goods.  
(d) Pre -operative/ pre-incorporation expenses (including payments of rent 
etc.), subject to the following conditions: 
(i) Verification and certifica tion of the pre- incorporation/ pre -operative 
expenses by the statutory auditor; 
(ii) Submission of FIRC f or remittance of funds by the overseas promoters for 
the expenditure incurred; 
(iii) Payments should be made by the foreign investor to the company dir ectly 
or through the bank account opened by the foreign investor as provided under 
the Act or the rules or the regulations framed thereunder; and 
(iv) In case of applications submitted for Government approval: 
a) The applications should be accompanied by documents evidencing 
1.4.4(d)(i), (ii) and  (iii) above and a special resolution of the 
company.  
b) The applicat ion (complete in all respects) for capitalization being 
made within a period of 180 days from the date of incorporation of 
the company.  
2. Mode of payment, issue of equity instruments and refund  
2.1 The amount of consideration should be paid as inward re mittance from abroad 
through banking channels or out of funds held in 6any repatriable foreign currency or 
Rupee account maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Manag ement 
(Deposit) Regulations, 2016.  
 
6 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to modification it read as 
“NRE/FCNR(B)/ Escrow”.

[Page 38]
38  
2.2 The amount of consideration will include issue of equity shares by an Indian 
company against any funds payable by it to the investor and also swap of equity 
instruments where the Indian investee company is engaged in an automatic route 
sector.  
2.3 If the equity instruments  are not issued by the Indian company within sixty days 
from the date of receipt of the consideration, the amount so received has to be 
refunded to the person concerned by outward remittance through banking channels 
or by credit to his  7repatriable foreign currency or Rupee accounts  maintained in 
accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016 , 
as the case may be, within fifteen days from the date of completion of sixty days.  
 
2.4 In case of partly paid equity shares, the period of 60 days will be reckoned from 
the date of receipt of each call payment. The forfeiture of the amount paid upfront  on 
non-payment of call money shall be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Income Tax Act, 1961 as applicable  
 
2.5 Refund may be permitted by an authorised dealer provided it is satisfied:  
(a) with the bonafides of the applicant;  
(b) that the funds were received as per the mode of payment prescribed in para 
2.1 above;  
(c) interest, if any, is payable as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.  
2.6 Non-compliance of instructions at 2.3 above shall be a contravention of NDI 
Rules notwithstanding the fact that interest for delayed refund has been paid as per 
Companies Act, 2013.  
2.7 The Indian company issuing equity instruments  stated in this annex is permitted 
to open a foreign currency account with an Authorised Dealer in India in accordance 
with Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign currency accounts by a person 
resident in India) Regulations, 2015.  
 
3. Remittance of sale proceeds  
3.1 The sale proceeds (net of taxes) of the equity instruments  can be remitted 
outside India or credited to the 8any repatriable foreign currency or Rupee account of 
the person concerned maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange 
Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016. 
 
7 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to modification it read as 
“NRE/FCNR(B) accounts”. 
8 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to modification it read as 
“NRE/FCNR(B)”.

[Page 39]
39  
 
Annex 2  
Investments by Foreign Portfolio Investors  
  
1. Purchase/ sale of equity instruments  
1.1 A Foreign Portfolio Investor (FPI) may purchase or sell equity instr uments of an 
Indian company on a recognised stock exchange in India.  
Explanation, – In case two or more FPI’s including foreign Governments, or their 
related entities are having common ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than fifty 
percent or commo n control, all such FPIs shall be treated as forming part of an 
investor group. 
1.2 The total holding by each FPI or an investor group as referred in S EBI (FPI) 
Regulations, 2014, should be less than 10 per cent of the total paid- up equity capital 
on a fully diluted basis or less than 10 per cent of the paid-up value of each series of 
debentures or preference shares or warrants issued by an Indian company and the 
total holdings of all FPIs put together should not exceed 24 per cent of paid- up 
equity capital on a fully diluted basis or paid up value of each series of debentures or 
preference shares or warrants. The limit of 10 percent and 24 percent will be called 
individual and aggregate limit, respectively.  
1.3 The total holding of a foreign portfolio investor under annex 2 , 3 or any other 
annex of these directions, including through an investor group under this annex, in a 
listed Indian company, shall be less than the above prescribed individual limit. In 
case of investment of 10 percent or more, the provi sions of para 1.4 of this annex 
shall apply.  
Explanation: For the purpose of this annex, the expression “investor group” shall 
have the same meaning as assigned to it under the SEBI (FPI) Regulations, 2019, as 
amended from time to time. 
1.4 In case the total holding of an FPI  increases to 10 percent or more of the total 
paid-up equity capital on a fully diluted basis or 10 per cent or more of the paid- up 
value of each  series of debentures or preference shares or warrants issued by an 
Indian company, the total investment so made by the FPI will be re- classified as FDI 
subject to the conditions as specified by SEBI in this regard and the investee 
company and the investor  complying with the reporting requirements prescribed in 
FEMA 395. The reclassification of  foreign portfolio investment of a foreign portfolio 
investor to FDI shall be in accordance with the framework issued by the RBI vide 
A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated November 11, 2024.

[Page 40]
40  
1.5 For arriving at the ceiling on holdings of FPI, equity instruments  acquired both 
through primary as well as secondary market will be included.  However, the ceiling 
will not include investment made by the FPI through off -shore Funds,  Global 
Depository Receipts and Euro-Convertible Bonds.  
1.6 An FPI is permitted to purchase equity instruments of an Indian company through 
public offer/ private placement, subject to the individual and aggregate limits and the 
conditions specified below:  
(a) in case of Public Offer, the price of the shares to be issued is not less than the 
price at which shares are issued to residents, and  
(b) in case of issue by private placement, the price is not less than the price 
arrived in terms of SEBI guidelines or not less than the fair price worked out 
as per any internationally accepted pricing methodology for valuation of 
shares on arm’s length basis, duly certified by a SEBI registered Merchant 
Banker or Chartered Accountant, as applicable  
1.7 An FPI may undertake short selling as well  as lending and borrowing of 
securities as permitted by the RBI and SEBI subject to the following conditions:  
a) The short selling of equity shares  by FPIs is permitted for equity shares of 
those companies where there is at least 2% headroom available for total 
foreign investment and/or aggregate FPI limit or is not in the caution list or 
ban list published by the RBI  or any restrictive list published by any authority 
designated to do so by the RBI or SEBI.  
b) Borrowing of equity shares by FPIs will only be for the purpose of delivery into 
short sale.  
c) The margin/ collateral will be maintained by FPIs as applicable in the cash 
and F&O segment of equity market. No interest shall be paid to the FPI on 
such margin/ collateral.  
d) The designated c ustodian banks shall separately report all transactions 
pertaining to short selling of equity shares and lending and borrowing of 
equity shares by FPIs in their daily  reporting with a suitable remark (short 
sold/ lent/ borrowed equity shares) for the purpose of monitoring by the RBI.   
1.8 Investments will be subject to the limits and margin requirements prescribed by 
the RBI/ SEBI.  
 
2. Mode of payment  
2.1 The amount  of consideration for purchase of equity instruments  should be 
received from abroad through banking channels through inward remittance or out of 
funds held in a foreign currency account and/ or a Special Non- Resident Rupee 
(SNRR) account maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Deposit) Regulations, 2016.

[Page 41]
41  
2.2 The foreign currency account 9can be used only and exclusively for transactions 
under this Annex.  
  
3. Remittance of sale proceeds  
The sale proceeds (net of taxes) of the investments made can be remitted ou tside 
India or may be credited to the foreign currency account or SNRR account of the 
FPI.  
 
4. Saving  
All investments made by deemed FPIs in accordance with the regulations prior to 
their registration as FPIs are valid and taken into account for computation of 
aggregate limits.  
 
9 Deleted vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to deletion it read as “and 
SNRR account”.

[Page 42]
42  
 
Annex 3  
Investments by an individual person resident outside India including a Non-
Resident Indian (NRI) or Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) on repatriation basis 
  
1. Purchase/ sale of equity instruments  
1.1 An individual pers on resident outside Indiais allowed to purchase or sell  equity 
instruments of a listed Indian company on repatriation basis, on a recognised stock 
exchange in India, subject to the following conditions:  
(a) The purchase and sale is done through a designated authorised dealer 
branch;  
(b) The total holding by any individual person resident outside India shall be less 
than ten percent of the total paid- up equity capital on a fully diluted basis or 
shall be less than ten percent  of the paid- up value of each series of  
debentures or preference shares or share warrants issued by an Indian 
company and the total holdings of all individual persons resident outside India 
put together shall not exceed twenty four percent of the total paid- up equity 
capital on a fully diluted basis or shall  not exceed twenty four percent of the 
paid-up value of each series of debentures or preference shares or share 
warrants; 
(c) The total holding of an individual person resident outside India in a listed 
Indian company under annex 2, 3 or any other annex to these directions, shall 
be less than the above prescribed individual limit ( less than ten percent ). In 
case of investment of ten percent or more, the provisions of para 7.3.3 of 
these directions shall be applicable. 
(d) Investment by an individual person resident outside India which results in 
transfer of ownership or control of the listed Indian company to entities or 
citizens of a country which shares land border with India or where the 
beneficial owner of such investment is a citizen of any such country, shall 
require the prior approval of the Government. Where; 
a. ‘ownership’ shall have the same meaning as defined under para 9.1.1 of 
these directions. 
b. ‘beneficial owner’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause 
(fa) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Prevention of Money -laundering 
Act, 2002 (15 of 2003), and shall be determined as per the criteria  
specified under  sub-rule (3)  of rule 9 of the Prevention of Money -
laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005, made under the said 
Act.

[Page 43]
43  
 
2. Mode of payment  
2.1 The amount of consideration for purchase of  equity instruments  should be 
received as an inward remittance from abroad through banking channels or out of 
funds held in any repatriable deposit account maintained in accordance with the 
Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.  
2.2 A repatriable deposit account maintained in accordance with the Foreign 
Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016 s hall  be designated by an 
individual person resident outside India and same shall be used exclusively  for 
investments permitted under this annex.  
2.2.1 The specific credits permitted for the designated rupee account are as follows:  
(a) Inward remittances from abroad in foreign exchange through banking 
channels;  
(b) Transfer from other repatriable foreign currency or rupee account of the 
individual person resident outside India  maintained in accordance with the 
Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016;  
(c) Sale proceeds (net of taxes) of equity instrum ents acquired on repatriation 
basis i n accordance with instructions contained in this annex and sold on 
stock exchange; and  
(d) Dividend or income earned on investment made on repatriation basis in 
accordance with instructions contained in this annex.  
 
2.2.2 The specific debits permitted for the designated rupee account are as follows:  
(a) Outward remittances of dividend or income earned on investment made on 
repatriation basis in accordance with instructions contained in this annex;  
(b) Amounts paid on account of purchase of equity in struments on repatriation 
basis on stock exchanges in accordance with instructions contained in this 
annex;  
(c) Any charges on account of sale/ purchase of equity instruments  in 
accordance with instructions contained in this annex; and  
(d) Remittances outside India or transfer to any other repatriable account of 
investor concerned or any other person eligible to maintain such accounts in 
accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regula tions, 
2016.  
 
3. Remittance of sale proceeds  
The sale proceeds (net of taxes) of the equity instruments  can be remitted outside 
India or may be credited to designated rupee Account of the person concerned.  
 
4. Saving  
Any account designated as NRO (PIS) shall be re-designated as NRO account.

[Page 44]
44  
 
 
Annex 4 
 
Investment by Non-Resident Indian (NRI) or Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) on 
Non-Repatriation basis 
  
A. Purchase/ sale of equity instruments  or convertible notes or units or 
contribution to the capital of an LLP  
1.1 A Non- resident Indian (NRI) or an Overseas Citizen of India (OCI), including a 
company, a trust and a partnership firm incorporated outside India and owned and 
controlled by NRIs or OCIs, is permitted to purchase/ contribute to the following on a 
non-repatriation basis:  
(a) Any capital instrument issued by a company without any limit either on the 
stock exchange or outside it.  
(b) Units issued by an invest ment vehicle without any limit, either on the stock 
exchange or outside it.  
(c) The capital of a Limited Liability Partnership without any limit.  
(d) Convertible notes issued by a startup company in accordance with NDI Rules.  
 
1.2 The investment detailed at 1.1 above will be deemed to be domestic investment 
at par with the investment made by residents.  
 
1.3 An NRI or an OCI including a company, a trust and a partnership firm 
incorporated outside India and owned and controlled by NRIs or OCIs, cannot invest 
in equity instruments  or units of a Nidhi company or a company engaged in 
agricultural/ plantation activities or real estate business or construction of farm 
houses or dealing in Transfer of Development Rights.  
 
2. Mode of Payment  
2.1 The amount of consideration should be received from abroad through banking 
channels or paid out of  funds held in N RE/ FCNR(B)/ NRO accounts maintained in 
accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.  
 
3. Sale/ maturity proceeds  
3.1 The sale/  maturity proceeds (net of applicable taxes) of equity instruments  
purchased or disinvestment proceeds of an LLP should be credited only to the NRO 
account of the investor, irrespec tive of the type of account from which the 
consideration was paid.  
3.2 The amount invested in equity instruments  of an Indian company or the 
consideration for contribution to the capital of an LLP and the capital appreciation 
thereon cannot be repatriated abroad.

[Page 45]
45  
 
B. Investment in a firm or a proprietary concern  
1. Contribution to capital of a firm or a proprietary concern  
1.1 An NRI or an OCI is permitted to invest, on a non- repatriation basis, by way of 
contribution to the capital of a firm or a proprietary concern in India.  
1.2 The investee firm or proprietary concern should not be engage d in any 
agricultural/ plantation activity or print media or real estate business i.e., dealing in 
land and immovable property with a view to earning profit or earning income 
therefrom.  
 
2. Mode of payment  
2.1 The amount of consideration should be received from abroad through banking 
channels or paid out of funds held in NRE/ FCNR(B)/ NRO accounts maintained in 
accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.  
 
3. Sale/ maturity proceeds  
3.1 The disinvestment proceeds should be credited only to the NRO account of the 
person concerned, irrespective of the type of account from which the consideration 
was paid.  
3.2 The amount invested for contribution  to the capital of a firm or a proprietary 
concern and the capital appreciation thereon cannot be repatriated abroad.

[Page 46]
46  
 
Annex 5  
Investment in a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)  
 
1. Investment in a LLP  
1.1 Foreign Investment was permitted in an LLP with effect from May 20, 2011.  
1.2 A person resident outside India (other than a citizen of Pakistan or Bangladesh) 
or an entity incorporated outside India (other than an entity incorporated in Paki stan 
or Bangladesh), not being a Foreign Portfolio Investor (FPI) or a Foreign Venture 
Capital Investor (FVCI), is permitted to contribute to the capital of an LLP operating 
in sectors/ activities where foreign investment up to 100 percent is permitted under 
automatic route and there are no FDI linked performance conditions.  
1.3 Investment by way of ‘profit share’ will fall under the category of reinvestment of 
earnings.  
1.4 Investment in an LLP is subject to the conditions prescribed in the Limited 
Liability Partnership Act, 2008.  
1.5 A company having foreign investment, engaged in a sector where foreign 
investment up to 100 percent is permitted under the automatic route and there are 
no FDI linked performance conditions, can be converted into an LLP under the 
automatic route.  
1.6 An LLP having foreign investment, engaged in a sector where foreign investment 
up to 100 percent is permitted under the automatic route and there are no FDI linked 
performance conditions, can be converted into a company under the automatic 
route.  
 
2. Mode of payment  
2.1 Payment by an investor towards capital contribution of an LLP should be made 
by way of an inward remittance through banking channels or out of funds held in  
10any repatriable foreign currency or Rupee  account maintained in accordanc e with 
the Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.  
 
3. Remittance of disinvestment proceeds  
3.1 The disinvestment proceeds can be remitt ed outside India or m ay be credited t o 
11any repatriable foreign currency or Rupee  account of the person concerned  
maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management ( Deposit) 
Regulations, 2016. 
 
 
 
 
10 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to modification it read as 
“NRE/FCNR(B)”. 
11 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to modification it read as 
“NRE/FCNR(B)”.

[Page 47]
47  
Annex 6  
 
Investment by a Foreign Venture Capital Investor (FVCI)  
 
1. Investment by Foreign Venture Capital Investor (FVCI)  
1.1 Investment by an FVCI was permitted with effect from December 26, 2000  
 
1.2 An FVCI is permit ted to invest in securities (not list ed on a recognised stock 
exchange at the time of issue), of an Indian company engaged in the following 
sectors:  
(1) Biotechnology  
(2) IT related to hardware and software development  
(3) Nanotechnology  
(4) Seed research and development  
(5) Research and development of new chemical entities in pharmaceutical     
sector  
(6) Dairy industry  
(7) Poultry industry  
(8) Production of bio-fuels  
(9) Hotel-cum-convention centres with seating capacity of more than three 
thousand.  
(10) Infrastructure sector. The term ‘Infrastructure Sector’ has the same 
meaning as given in the Harmonised Master List of Infrastructure sub-
sectors approved by Government of India vide Notification F. No. 
13/06/2009-INF dated March 27, 2012 as amended/ updated.  
1.3 An FVCI can invest in equity or equity linked instrument or debt instrument issued 
by an Indian startup company irrespective of the sector in which the startup company 
is engaged.  
Provided that: if the investment is in equit y instruments, then the sectoral caps, entry 
routes and attendant conditions shall apply. 
 
1.4 An FVCI can acquire units of a Venture Capital Fund (VCF) or of a Category I 
Alternative Investment Fund (Cat-I AIF) or units of a scheme or of a fund set up by a 
VCF or by a Cat-I AIF.  
 
1.5 Investment by an FVCI i n equity instruments  of an Indian com pany will be 
subject to the reporting, sectoral caps, entry routes and attendant conditions.  
 
1.6 An FVCI may purchase the securities/ instruments permitted for it either from the 
issuer of these securities/ instrument s or from any person holding these securities/ 
instruments.

[Page 48]
48  
1.7 An FVCI may invest in securities on a recognized stock exchange subject to the 
provisions of the SEBI (FVCI) Regulations, 2000.  
 
1.8 An FVCI may acquire/ transfer securities/ instruments permitted for it at a price 
that is mut ually acceptable to the buyer and the seller/ issuer. In case of sale to a 
person resident outside India, the buyer should be an eligible acquirer.  
 
1.9 An FVCI may  also receive the proceeds of the liquidation of VCFs or of Cat -I 
AIFs or of schemes/ funds set up by the VCFs or Cat-I AIFs.  
 
2. Mode of payment  
2.1 The amount of consideration shall be paid as inward remittance from abroad 
through banking channels or out of funds held in a foreign currency account and/ or  
a Special Non- Resident Rupee (SNRR) account maintained in accordance with the 
Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.  
 
2.2 The foreign currency account 12shall be used only and ex clusively for 
transactions under this annex.  
 
3. Remittance of sale/ maturity proceeds  
3.1 The sale/ maturity proceeds (net of taxes) may be remitted outside India or may 
be credited to the foreign currency account or SNRR account of  the FVCI. 
 
12 Deleted vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to deletion it read as “and 
SNRR account”.

[Page 49]
49  
 
Annex 7  
 
Investment by a person resident outside India in an Investment Vehicle  
 
1. Investment in units of an Investment Vehicle  
1.1 A person resident outside India (other than a citizen  of Pakistan or Bangladesh) 
or an entity incorporated outside India (other than an entity i ncorporated in Pakistan 
or Bangladesh) is permitted, with effect from November 13, 2016, to invest in units of 
Investment Vehicles.  
1.2 The sale/ transfer/ redemption of units acquired/ purchased in accordance with 
this annex are subject to the regulations framed by SEBI  or the directions issued by 
the RBI.  
1.3 An Investment vehicle can issue its units to a person resident outside India 
against swap of equity instruments of a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) proposed to 
be acquired by such Investment Vehicle.  
1.4 The portfolio investment by an AIF (Cat III) which has foreign investment is 
restricted to the securities/ instruments permitted for FPIs under NDI Rules.  
 
2. Mode of payment  
2.1 The amount of consideration sho uld be paid as inward  remittance from abroad 
through banking channels or by way of swap of shares of a Special Purpose Vehicle 
or out of funds held in 13any repatriable foreign currency or Rupee account 
maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) 
Regulations, 2016.  
 
3. Remittance of sale/ maturity proceeds  
The sale/ maturity proceeds (net of taxes) of the units may be remitted  outside India 
or credited to the 14any repatriable foreign currency or Rupee account of the person 
concerned maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Deposit) Regulations, 2016. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to modification it read as 
“NRE or FCNR(B)”. 
14 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to modification it read as 
“NRE or FCNR(B)”.

[Page 50]
50  
Annex 8  
 
Investment in Depository receipts by a person resident outside India 
 
1. Issue/ transfer of eligible instruments to a foreign depository for the 
purpose of issuance of depository receipts by eligible person(s)  
1.1 In terms of Depository Receipts Scheme, 2014 ( DR Scheme, 2014) , Depository 
Receipts can be issued against any security or unit in which a person resident 
outside India is allowed to invest under NDI Rules . These will be referred to as 
‘eligible instruments’ for the purpose of this annex.  
1.2 A person is permitted to  issue or transfer eligible instruments to a foreign 
depository for the purpose of issuance of depository receipts in accordance with the 
DR Scheme, 2014 and guidelines issued by Central Government in this regard.  
1.3 A domestic custodian can purchase eli gible instruments on behalf of a person 
resident outside India, for the purpose of converting the instruments so purchased 
into depository receipts in terms of DR Scheme 2014.  
1.4 The aggregate of eligible instruments which may be issued or transferred to  
foreign depositories, along with eligible instruments already held by persons resident 
outside India, shall not exceed the limit on foreign holding of such eligible  
instruments under the Act, rules or regulations framed thereunder.  
1.5 The eligible instruments shall not be issued or transferred to a foreign depository 
for the purpose of issuing depository receipts at a price less than the price applicable 
to a corresponding mode of issue or transfer of such instruments  to domestic 
investors under the applicable laws.  
 
2. Saving  
2.1 Depository Receipts issued under the Issue of Foreign Currency Convertible 
Bonds and Ordinary Shares (Through Depository Receipt Mechanism) Scheme, 
1993 shall be deemed to have been issued under the correspondi ng provisions of  
DR Scheme 2014 and have to comply with the provisions laid out in this annex.

[Page 51]
51  
Annex 9  
Issue of Indian Depository Receipts (IDRs)  
1. Issue of IDRs  
1.1 Companies incorporated outside India may issue IDRs  through a Domestic 
Depository, to a person resident in India and a person resident outside India.  
1.2 The issue of IDRs should comply with the Companies (Registration of Foreign 
Companies) Rules, 2014 and the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009;  
1.3 Any issue of IDRs by financial/ banking companies having presence in India, 
either through a branch or subsidiary, shall require prior approval of the sectoral 
regulator(s);  
1.4 IDRs shall be denominated in Indian Rupees only;  
1.5 The proceeds of the issue of IDRs shall be immediately repatriated outside India 
by the companies issuing such IDRs.  
 
2. Purchase/ sale of IDRs:  
2.1 An FPI or an NRI or an OCI may purchase, hold or sell IDRs  
2.2 NRIs or OCIs may invest in the IDRs out of f unds held in their NR E/ 
FCNR(B) account, maintained in accordance with the Foreign Exchange 
Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016 . 15An FPI may invest in the 
IDRs out of funds held in a foreign currency account or an SNRR account.  
2.3 There would be an overall cap of USD 5 billion for raising of capital by 
issuance of IDRs by eligible foreign companies in Indian markets. This 
limit would be monitored by SEBI  
 
3. Transfer, redemption and two way fungibility of IDRs  
3.1 Redemption/ conversion of IDRs into underlying equity shares of the issuing 
company shall comply with the 16Foreign Exchange Management (Overseas 
Investment) Rules, 2022. 
3.2 IDRs shall not be redeemable into underlyi ng equity shares before the expiry of  
one year from the date of issue.  
3.3 Limited two way fungibility of IDRs is permissible.  
3.4 The guidelines to be followed for 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 above are as follows:  
(a) Listed Indian companies may either sell or contin ue to hold the underl ying 
shares subject to compliance with the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Overseas Investment) Rules, 2022. 
 
 
15 Inserted vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. 
16 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 395(3)/2025-RB dated January 15, 2025. Prior to modification, it read as 
“Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of any Foreign Security) Regulations, 2004”.

[Page 52]
52  
 
 
 
(b) Indian Mutual Funds, registered with SEBI may either sell or continue t o hold 
the underlying shares subject to compliance wit h the Foreign Exchang e 
Management (Overseas Investment) Rules, 2022. 
(c) Other persons resident in India including resident individuals are allowed to 
hold the underlying shares only for the purpose of sale within a period of 30 
days from the date of conversion of the IDRs into underlying shares.  
3.5 The FEMA provisions shall not apply to the holding of the underlying shares, on 
redemption of IDRs by the FPIs.

[Page 53]
53  
 
 
 
Annex 10 
Investment by other Non-resident Investors 
 
1. Long term investors like Sovereign Wealth Funds  (SWFs), Multilateral Agencies, 
Endowment Funds, Insurance Funds, Pension Funds and Foreign Central Banks 
may purchase securities subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified by 
the RBI and the SEBI. 
 
2. “Eligible Foreign Entity  (EEE)” as defin ed in SEBI circular dated the 9th October 
2018 and having actual exposure to Indian physical commodity market may 
participate in domestic commodity derivative market s in accordance with framework 
specified by the SEBI.

[Page 54]
54  
Annex 11 
Investment by permissible holder in Equity Shares of Public Companies 
Incorporated in India and Listed on International Exchanges 
 
1. Investment by permissible holder: 
 
1.1 A permissible holder as defined under the FEM (NDI) Rules,  2019 may purchase 
or sell equity Shares of a public company which is listed or to be listed on an 
International Exchange under Direct Listing of Equity Shares of Companies 
Incorporated in I ndia on International Exchanges Scheme notified by the central 
government v ide Foreign Exchange Management (Non- debt Instruments) 
Amendment Rules, 2024 dated January 24, 2024. 
 
2. Mode of payment 
 
2.1 The amount of consideration for purchase / subscription of equity shares of an 
Indian company listed on an International Exchange shall be paid; 
 
2.1.1 as inward remittance from abroad through banking channels or out of funds 
held in any repatriable forei gn currency or rupee account maintained in accordance 
with the Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016, or; 
 
2.1.2 through banking channels to a forei gn currency account of the Indian com pany 
held in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign currency 
accounts by a person resident in India) Regu lations, 2015, as amen ded from time t o 
time. 
 
Explanation: The proceeds of purchase / subscription of equity shares of an Indian 
company listed on an International Exchange shall either be remitted to a bank 
account in India or  deposited in a foreign curr ency account of the Indian company 
held in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign currency 
accounts by a person resident in I ndia) Regulations, 2015, as am ended from time to  
time. 
 
3. Remittance of sale/ maturity proceeds 
 
The sale proceeds (net of taxes) of the equity shares may be remitted outside India 
or may be credited to the bank account of the permissible holder maintained in 
accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016.

[Page 55]
55  
 
Annex 12  
List of notifications/circulars  
which have been consolidated in this Master Direction  
  
SN Rules/Notifications/ A.P. (DIR Series)  
Circulars Date 
1 Foreign Exchange Management (NDI) Rules, 
2019 
October 17, 2019 
2 FEM (NDI) (Amendment) Rules, 2019 December 05, 2019 
3 FEM (NDI) (Amendment) Rules, 2020 April 22, 2020 
4 FEM (NDI) (Second Amendment) Rules, 2020 April 27, 2020 
5 FEM (NDI) (Amendment) Rules, 2021 August 06, 2021 
6 FEM (NDI) (Second Amendment) Rules, 2021 August 19, 2021 
7 FEM (NDI) (Third Amendment) Rules, 2021 October 05, 2021 
8 FEM (NDI) (Fourth Amendment) Rules, 2021 October 12, 2021 
9 FEM (NDI) (Amendment) Rules, 2022 April 12, 2022 
10 FEM (NDI) (Amendment) Rules, 2024 January 24, 2024 
11 Foreign Exchange Managemen t (Non -Debt 
Instruments) (Second Amendment) Rules, 2024 March 14, 2024 
12 Foreign Exchange Management (Non -debt 
Instruments) (Fourth Amendment) Rules, 2024 
August 16, 2024 
13 Foreign Exchange Management (Non -debt 
Instruments) (Amendment) Rules, 2026 
May 2, 2026 
14 Foreign Exchange  Management (Non-debt 
Instruments) (Third Amendment) Rules, 2026 
June 12, 2026
