[Page 1]
भुगतान और ननपटान प्रणाली निभाग, क ें द्रीय कायाालय, 14 िी मंनिल, क ें द्रीय कायाालय भिन,शहीद भगत न ंह मागा, फोटा, मुम्बई - 400001 
फोनTel: (91-22) 2260 1000;  फ ै क्  Fax: (91-22) 2265 9566;   ईमेल-e-mail :   cgmdpssco@rbi.org.in 
Department of Payment and Settlement Systems, Central Office, 14th Floor, Central Office Building, Shahid Bhagat Singh Road, Fort, Mumbai -400001 
नहंदी आ ान है, इ का प्रयोग बढाइए 
 
भारतीय ररज़र्व बैंक  
            RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
RBI/DPSS/2024-25/123 
CO.DPSS.OVRST.No.S447/06-26-002/2024-25                                                July 30, 2024  
 
The Chairman / Managing Director / Chief Executive Officer 
Authorised Non-bank Payment System Operators 
 
 
Madam / Dear Sir, 
 
Master Directions on Cyber Resilience and Digital Payment Security Controls for non-
bank Payment System Operators 
 
The safety and security of payment systems is a key objective of the Reserve Bank  of India 
(RBI). To ensure that the authorised non -bank Payment System Operators (PSOs) are 
resilient to existing and emerging information systems a nd cyber security risks, it was 
announced in the Statement on Developmental and Regulatory Policies  issued as part of 
Monetary Policy Statement dated April 08, 2022  that RBI will issue directions on Cyber 
Resilience and Payment Security Controls for Payment System Operators (PSOs). 
 
2. Accordingly, a draft Master Direction was published on June 02, 2023  seeking 
comments / feedback from stakeholders. Based on the feedback received, it has been decided 
to issue the final Directions, covering robust governance mechanism s for identification, 
assessment, monitoring and management of  these risks. The Directions also cover baseline 
security measures for ensuring system resiliency as well as safe and secure digital payment 
transactions. However, they shall endeavour to migrate to latest security standards. The 
existing instructions on security and risk mitigation measures for payments done using cards, 
Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) and mobile banking continue to be applicable as hitherto. 
In case of any discrepancy in applicability of guidelines, the instructions provided in this Master 
Direction shall prevail.

[Page 2]
2 
 
 
3.  These Directions are issued under Section 10 (2) read with Section 18 of Payment 
and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 (Act 51 of 2007). 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
(Sudhanshu Prasad) 
Chief General Manager

[Page 3]
3 
 
 
  
Index Page 
Section I – Preliminary 4 
Introduction 4 
Short Title and Commencement 4 
Applicability 5 
Purpose 5 
Section II – Governance Controls 5 
Cyber Security Preparedness 5 
Risk Assessment and Monitoring 6 
Section III – Baseline Information Security Measures / Controls 6 
Inventory Management 6 
Identity and Access Management 6 
Network Security 7 
Application Security Life Cycle 8 
Security Testing 8 
Vendor Risk Management 9 
Data Security 9 
Patch and Change Management Life Cycle 10 
Incident Response 10 
Business Continuity Plan (BCP) 10 
Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) 11 
Employee Awareness / Training 11 
Cloud Security 11 
Other Security Measures 12 
Section IV – Digital Payment Security Measures / Controls 13 
Mobile Payments 14 
Card Payments 14 
Prepaid Payment Instruments 15 
Acronyms 16

[Page 4]
4 
 
Master Directions on Cyber Resilience and Digital Payment Security Controls for non-
bank Payment System Operators (PSOs) 
 
Section I 
Preliminary 
Introduction 
1. In exercise of the powers conferred under Sec tion 10 (2) read with Section 18 of the 
Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 (PSS Act), the Reserve Bank of India (RBI, Bank) 
being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest so to do, issues the  
Master Directions hereinafter specified. 
 
Short Title and Commencement 
2. These Master Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India ( Cyber Resilience 
and Digital Payment Security Controls for non-bank PSOs) Master Directions, 2024 (Master 
Directions, Directions). 
 
3. The Directions shall come into effect on the day they are placed on the official website 
of the RBI.  In order to provide adequate time to put in place the necessary compliance 
structure, a phased implementation approach1 is prescribed as under – 
Regulated Entity Timeline 
Large non-bank PSOs2 April 1, 2025 
Medium non-bank PSOs3 April 1, 2026 
Small non-bank PSOs4 April 1, 2028 
 
  
                                                            
1 The timelines prescribed in the instructions issued earlier by RBI shall continue to be applicable as hitherto. 
 
2 For the purpose of these Directions, Clearing Corporation of India Limited  (CCIL), National Payments 
Corporation of India (NPCI), NPCI Bharat Bill Pay Limited, Card Payment Networks, Non-bank ATM Networks,  
White Label ATM Operators (WLAOs), Large PPI Issuers, Trade Receivables Discounting System  (TReDS) 
Operators, Bharat Bill Payment Operating Units (BBPOUs) and Payment Aggregators (PAs) are considered as 
large non-bank PSOs. 
 
3 Cross-border (in-bound) Money Transfer Operators under Money Transfer Service Scheme (MTSS) and Medium 
PPI Issuers are considered as medium non-bank PSOs. 
 
4 Small PPI Issuers and Instant Money Transfer Operators are considered as small non-bank PSOs.  
 
Categorisation of authoris ed non -bank PPI Issuers into small, medium and large is as per the Oversight 
Framework for Financial Market Infrastructures (FMIs) and Retail Payment Systems (RPSs). If a PPI Issuer moves 
to a higher category, the timeline of the category to which it moves into, would apply. For instance, if a small (or 
medium) PPI issuer moves into medium category (or large), it will need to comply with these Directions within 
a period of two (or one) years from the time of new categorisation, as the case may be.

[Page 5]
5 
 
Applicability 
4. The provisions of these Directions shall apply to all authorised non-bank PSOs. 
5. To effectively identify, monitor, control and manage cyber and technology related risks 
arising out of linkages of PSOs with unregulated entities who are part of their digital payments 
ecosystem (like payment gateways, third party service providers , vendors, etc.), PSOs shall 
ensure adherence to these Directions by such unregulated entities as well, subject to mutual 
agreement. An organisational policy in this respect, approved by the Board , shall be put in 
place. 
 
Purpose 
6. These Directions aim to improve safety and security of the payment systems operated 
by PSOs by providing a framework for overall information security  preparedness with an 
emphasis on cyber resilience.  
 
Section II 
Governance Controls 
 
7. The Board of Directors (Board) of the PSO shall be responsible for ensuring adequate 
oversight over information security risk s, including cyber  risk and cyber resilience. 
However, primary oversight may be delegated to a sub -committee of the Board, headed 
by a member with experience in information / cyber security,  which shall meet at least 
once every quarter. 
8. The PSO shall formulate a Board approved Information Security (IS) policy to manage 
potential information security risks covering all applicat ions and products concerning 
payment systems as well as management of risks that have materialised. The policy shall 
be reviewed annually. It shall cover at the minimum, (i) roles and responsibilities of Board 
/ sub -committees of the Board, senior management and other key personnel; (ii) 
measures to identify, assess, manage and monitor cyber security risk which shall also 
include various types of  security controls for ensuring cyber resiliency  along with 
processes for training and awareness of employees / stakeholders.  
 
Cyber Security Preparedness  
9. The PSO shall prepare a distinct Board approved Cyber Crisis Management Plan (CCMP) 
to detect, contain, respond and recover from cyber threats and cyber attacks. Relevant 
guidelines from CERT -In / National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre 
(NCIIPC) / IDRBT and other agencies may be referred for guidance.

[Page 6]
6 
 
Risk Assessment and Monitoring 
10. The Board shall entrust the responsibility and accountability for implementing the IS policy 
and the cyber resilience framework as well as for continuously assessing the overall IS 
posture of PSO to a senior level executive with expertise in areas of information security 
including cyber security. [e.g. Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)]. 
11. The PSO shall define appropriate Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) to identify potential risk 
events and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to assess the effectiveness of security 
controls. These KRIs and KPIs shall be continuously monitored by the sub-committee of 
the Board referred to in paragraph 7.  
12. IT assessment reports (such as system audit, VA / PT reports, etc.) shall be placed before 
the sub-committee responsible for IT oversight in the meeting due immediately after such 
report is available. 
13. The PSO shall, undertake a cyber risk assessment exercise relating to launch of new 
product / services / technologies or undertaking major changes to infrastructure or 
processes of existing product / services. Action points emanating from such assessment 
shall be implemented under the oversight of the CISO or equivalent executive. 
 
Section III 
Baseline Information Security Measures / Controls 
 
14. Inventory Management  
(a) The PSO shall maintain a record of all the key roles, information assets (applications, 
data, infrastructure, personnel, services, etc.), critical functions, processes and third-
party service providers , and classify and document their levels of usage, criticality 
and business value.  
(b) A complete process flow  diagram of network resources, inter -connections and 
dependencies, and data flows with other information assets, including any other third-
party systems, shall be created and maintained.  
(c) Asset information shall necessarily include an identifier, network addre ss, asset 
location, asset owner name and End of Life Support (EoLS). All assets (hardware or 
software) approaching EoLS shall be assessed to evaluate risks associated with the 
continued use of the unsupported asset. 
 
15. Identity and Access Management   
(a) Policies, procedures and controls that address access privileges as well as 
administration of access rights must be established.  
(b) All individuals having access to the  IT environment of the PSO shall be assigned a 
digital identity, which shall be maintained and monitored till termination.

[Page 7]
7 
 
(c) Default authentication settings in systems / software / services shall be deactivated 
and changed before they are rolled out to live environment. 
(d) Access to systems and different environments (development, test, production, etc.) 
shall be based on need -to-have, need-to-know and based on the principle of least 
privilege5. 
(e) The use of privileged accounts 6 shall be with multi-factor authentication and tightly 
monitored. Appropriate controls, including rotation policy, shall be implemented. 
(f) Necessary security controls, including centralised mechanism to whitelist / blacklist, 
shall be put in place to ensure secure use of removable media and portable devices 
(eg. smartphones, laptops, etc.). 
(g) In case of remote / work from home situations, adequate precautions, including multi-
factor authentication mechanism, shall be in place. 
(h) The PSO shall define and implement procedures that limit, lock and terminate system 
and remote sessions after a pre-defined period of inactivity. 
(i) PSO shall have physical and environmental safeguards , with periodic testing,  to 
protect access to its information assets from natural disasters and other threats.  
 
16. Network Security 
The PSO shall put in place the following measures to protect its network and systems 
from external threats:  
(a) Network devices shall be configured and checked periodically for security rules; 
(b) A Security Operations Centre (SOC)  shall ensure proactive and centrali sed 
monitoring of comprehensive network and system logs collected and management of 
security incidents with effective tools for detection, escalation and quick response;  
(c) Automated mechanisms (eg.  Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) 
system), w hich correlate all network and system alerts and any other anomalous 
activity across its business units to detect multi-faceted attacks, shall be established; 
(d) Anti-malware solutions shall be implemented so as to prevent, detect and contain  
malware attacks by  scanning all incoming data to prevent malware from being 
installed and infecting a system; 
                                                            
5 Principle of least privilege refers to granting a user or a process only those privileges or access to the specific 
data, resources and applications that are/is necessary for intended function or to complete a required task. 
6 Privileged accounts refer to a user account that has more privileges than ordinary user e.g. Administrator level 
accounts. Such user may be able to install or remove software, upgrade the operating system , or modify 
system or application configurations. They might also have access to files that are not normally accessible 
to standard users.

[Page 8]
8 
 
(e) Multi-layered boundary defences shall be incorporated into IS systems to efficiently 
monitor the network traffic and filter the flow of data in a nd out of the organisation . 
There shall be adequate measures to detect and remedy unusual activities / events;  
(f) Network segmentation shall be made based on role, location  and environment 
(production, testing, development, etc.) to segregate systems and data of varying 
criticality; Whitelisting solution s shall be in place  to ensure that only permitted 
applications and services with validated needs are running. Whitelisting of ports may 
also be ensured with constant monitoring; and 
(g) PSOs shall allow devices (such as laptop, desktop, mobile , etc.) to be connected to 
its network only after ensuring that they meet the prescribed security measures  / 
requirements. 
 
17. Application Security Life Cycle (ASLC)  
(a) The PSO shall follow a ‘secure by design ’ approach such as Secure -Software 
Development Life Cycle (S-SDLC) for design and development of products / services 
and ensure that no security weaknesses are introduced during the build process. 
(b) The PSO shall implement a multi -tier application architecture, that ensures 
segregation of database layer from other layers ,  while developing digital payment 
products and services. 
(c) The ASLC guidelines shall apply to procured products / services as well. Further, the 
PSO shall  obtain the source code of all critical applications procured from third-party 
vendors. In case obtaining source code is not possible , there shall be an escrow 
arrangement for the source code to ensure continuity of services. 
 
18. Security Testing 
(a) The PSO shall ensure that all its applications are  subjected to rigorous security 
testing, such as source code review, VA, PT, etc., through qualified professionals at 
adequate frequency (at least on annual basis) in authenticated mode. 
(b) If the source code is not owned by the PSO, it shall obtain a certificate from the 
application developer stating that the application is free of vulnerabilities, malwares 
and any covert channels in the code.  Fresh certificate shall b e obtained for any 
changes to source code. 
(c) Deficiencies reported in the security testing shall be resolved in a time bound manner. 
Any recurring observation shall necessarily be reported to the Board sub-committee 
responsible for IT oversight along with detailed analysis for recurrence and resolution. 
(d) Any deployment or redeployment of new or existing services supporting critical 
functions, applications and infrastructure components must be done only after

[Page 9]
9 
 
conducting security audits, including VA / PT, and addressing the resultant 
observations. 
 
19. Vendor Risk Management  
The PSO shall be guided by the Framework for Outsourcing of Payment and Settlement-
related Activities by PSOs issued by RBI vide circular dated August 03, 2021  (updated 
from time to time). 
(a) The PSO shall put in place necessary security controls for preventing infiltration into 
its network from vendor environments. 
(b) The PSO shall adhere to the relevant legal and regulatory requirements relating to 
geographical location of infrastructure and processing, storage and usage of data 
and also ensure compliance by their vendors. 
(c) In case of vendors involved in critical processes and activities7, the PSO shall obtain 
certified assurance from an independent auditor on the vendor’s cyber resilience 
capabilities.  
 
20. Data Security   
(a) The PSO shall put in place a comprehensive data leak prevention policy for 
confidentiality, integrity, availability and protection of business and customer 
information (both in transit and at rest) in respect of data available with it or at vendor 
managed facilities, commensurate with the criticality and sensitivity of the information 
held / transmitted.  
(b) The PSO shall employ suitable mechanism to ensure traceability and visibility of data 
assets. 
(c) The PSO shall develop and implement an Information Security Management System 
(ISMS) based on applicable standards. 
(d) Application and da tabase security controls shall focus on secure handling, 
processing, storage and protection of data , in particular,  Personally Identifiable 
Information (PII). Data in transit and rest shall be secured th rough either data or 
channel encryption or both.  
(e) The PSO storing card (debit / credit / prepaid) data shall adhere to PCI -DSS 
guidelines and obtain PCI-DSS certification. 
(f) The PSO shall have necessary systems and procedures in place to periodically (at 
least on a half-yearly basis) test the backed-up data to ensure recovery without loss 
of transactions or audit-trails. 
                                                            
7 Critical processes as defined in the Framework for Outsourcing of Payment and Settlement -related Activities 
by PSOs issued by RBI vide circular dated August 03, 2021 (updated from time to time).

[Page 10]
10 
 
21. Patch and Change Management Life Cycle 
(a) The PSO shall put in place a documented policy and process to identify and 
implement patches to technology and software assets released by OEMs / others. 
(b) Security patches shall be applied to the relevant systems and applications within an 
appropriate time frame from their release. In case of critical patches released to tackle 
well-known / reported attacks, the PSO shall have a mechanism to apply them 
immediately. 
(c) Any change to system, technology, application, source code, etc., shall be managed 
using robust change management processes and after ensuring that overall integrity 
of the IT set-up is not compromised. 
(d) Patches and changes shall be implemented in production environment after testing  
and validating the same in other environments (e.g. development, testing, etc.).  
 
22. Incident Response  
(a) The PSO shall put in place a Board approved incident response mechanism, which 
shall include provisions to promptly notify its senior management, relevant employees 
and regulatory, supervisory and relevant public authorities, of cyber incidents.  
(b) Response strategies shall incorporate readiness to meet various incident scenarios 
based on situational awareness and potential impact, consistent communication and 
co-ordination with stakeholders. 
(c) Post-incident analysis, including forensic analysis (wherever necessary), shall be 
conducted to determine the impact and root cause of incidents. Adequate measures 
shall be taken to avoid recurrence of similar incidents. 
(d) Unusual incidents like cyber-attacks, outage of critical system / infrastructure, internal 
fraud, settlement delay, etc., shall be reported to RBI in the Incident Reporting Format 
(Annex 1) within 6 hours of detection. Indicative list of types of incidents to be reported 
is in Annex 2. Any cyber security incident shall also be reported to CERT-In. 
 
23. Business Continuity Plan (BCP) 
(a) The PSO shall develop a BCP  based on different cyber threat scenarios, including 
extreme but plausible events to which it may be exposed. It shall be reviewed at least 
once a year and include a comprehensive cyber incident response, resumption and 
recovery plan, to manage cyber security events or incidents. 
(b) The BCP shall be designed to enable rapid recovery from any adverse event and 
facilitate safe resumption of critical operations aligned with Recovery Time Objective 
(RTO) and Recovery Point Objective (RPO) while ensuring the security of processes 
and data.

[Page 11]
11 
 
(c) The PSO shall strive to achieve near-zero RPO. 
(d) The PSO shall set up a Disaster Rec overy (DR) facility in a different seismic zone 
than the Primary Data Centre (PDC). There shall be a defined methodology for 
reconciliation of data so as to ensure that there is no data loss while resuming 
operations from the DR. 
(e) DR drills shall be conducted on a half-yearly or more frequent basis. Any divergence 
from the RTO and RPO shall be analysed and the deficiency be rectified on urgent 
basis. 
 
24. Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) 
(a) To safeguard applications against risks emanating from insecure APIs, the PSO shall 
put in place, inter-alia, the following measures:  
(i) Authentication and Authorisation – Establish identity of the communicating 
applications; 
(ii) Confidentiality – Ensure that the message content is not tampered with; 
(iii) Integrity – Resources are reliably transferred; and 
(iv) Availability and Threat Protection – APIs are available when needed; anomalous8 
activities identified and mitigative action taken. 
(b) The PSO shall adhere to relevant standards and globally recognised frameworks on 
API security. 
 
25. Employee Awareness / Training  
(a) The PSO shall ensure periodic repeated training / awareness programs on information 
security issues for its employees and vendors managing its information assets.  
(b) A system of  periodic evaluation of cyber security awareness amongst employees 
shall be operationalised. Employees with an awareness level below a benchmark 
score may be restricted / prohibited from accessing information assets.  
(c) Board members and key senior management personn el shall be provided training 
and sensitised on information security and cyber risks. 
 
26. Cloud Security 
(a) The PSO subscribing to cloud services shall put in place a cloud operation policy  (as 
a part of board approved Information Security Policy), highlighting, inter-alia, activities 
that can be located in cloud servers, clearly identified role s and responsibilities for 
cloud service provider (CSP), data localisation, protection and recoverability 
requirements. 
                                                            
8 Activity that is sufficiently different than historical activity.

[Page 12]
12 
 
(b) It shall be ensured that data pertaining to the PSO is clearly segregated and stringent 
access control measures  are implemented . Multi -tenancy environments shall be 
protected against data integrity and confidentiality risks, and against co -mingling of 
data.  
(c) The PSO shall ensure that the CSP is subjected t o periodic (at least annually) 
independent information and cyber security audits. Such audit reports and the CSPs 
overall performance, its cyber resilience capabilities shall be reviewed annually by the 
Board sub-committee responsible for IT oversight.  
 
27. Other Security Measures  
(a) The PSO shall ensure that all  payment transactions, including cash withdrawals, 
involving debit to the account conducted through electronic modes (bank accounts / 
debit cards / credit cards / PPIs, etc.) are permitted only by validation through multi-
factor authentication, except where explicitly permitted / relaxed. 
(b) The PSO shall ensure secure configuration of its entire IT infrastructure. It shall also 
equip its servers with adequate security measures so that unauthorised  / spoofed 
transactions are not  done and the authentication process is robust, secure and 
centralised. 
(c) The PSO shall put in place a real-time / near real -time fraud monitoring solution to 
identify suspicious transactional behaviour and generate alerts.  
(d) The PSO shall have a manned facility to function on 24x7x365 basis  for facilitating 
swift resolution of unauthorised / fraudulent transactions reported by customers and 
also to provide prompt response to Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs).  
(e) The PSO shall put in place a mechanism to capture, analyse, store and archive audit 
logs in a systematic manner. Log messages shall provide relevant information to 
uniquely identify the user that initia ted an action, the action and parameters of that 
particular action. Access to log data shall be provided on a controlled basis . Audit 
logs shall be preserved for a period of at least five years. 
(f) The PSO shall ensure that the payment architecture operated b y them is robust , 
scalable and commensurate with the transaction volumes ; this shall be reviewed by 
the sub-committee of the Board. 
(g) The PSO shall employ secure mail and messaging systems to ensure that inbound 
and outbound traffic through mail, messages or any other media are secure.  
(h) The PSO shall subscribe to anti-phishing / anti-rogue app services for identifying and 
taking down phishing websites / rogue applications.

[Page 13]
13 
 
(i) The PSO shall, on an ongoing basis , either directly or through its participants and 
service providers, create public awareness on precautionary measures to safeguard 
against frauds and cyber threats while using digital payment products. 
 
Section IV 
Digital Payment Security Measures / Controls 
 
In addition to the extant instructions applicable to PSOs for digital payment transactions, the 
following instructions shall also be applicable. 
 
28. The PSO shall facilitate its members / participants have mechanisms for online alerts 
based on various parameters such as failed transactions, transaction velocity, as well as 
in case of new account parameters ( eg., excessive activity), time zone, geo -location, IP 
address origin (in respect of unusual patterns, prohibited zones / rogue IPs), behavioural 
biometrics, transaction origination from point of compromise, transactions to mobile 
wallets / mobile numbers / VPAs on whom vishing or other types of fraud are registered / 
recorded, declined transactions, transactions with no approval code, etc. 
29. While sending SMS / e-mail alert or any other notification to customers, either by PSO or 
payment system participants, the following shall be ensured – 
(a) Bank account number / card number / other confidential information are redacted / 
masked to the extent possible. 
(b) Online payment transactions shall mention merchant name (not the payment gateway 
/ aggregator) and amount ; for fund transfers, name of the beneficiary and debit 
amount. The PSO shall ensure that the name is taken from the system of the entity 
maintaining the beneficiary account. 
(c) In cases where the OTP is a factor of authentication, the PSO shall ensure that the 
OTP is mentioned at the end of the notification message and the message shall also 
refer the specific transaction. 
 
30. The PSO shall provide a facility on its mobile application / website  that would enable 
customers, with necessary authentication, to identify / mark a fraudulent transaction  for 
seamless and immediate notification to the issuer of payment instrument.  It shall also 
ensure facilitation of such mechanism by the system participants.

[Page 14]
14 
 
Mobile Payments 
31. The PSO providing  / facilitating / processing mobile payment services transactions shall 
comply with the following security practices  and risk mitigation measures  and shall also 
ensure that the participants in its payment system comply with these instructions: 
(a) PSO shall put in place a mechanism to ensure that the mobile application is free from 
any anomalies or exceptions for which the application was not programmed. 
(b) The PSO shall ensure that a n authenticated session, together with its encryption 
protocol, remains intact throughout an interaction with the customer. In case of any 
interference or if the customer closes the application, the session shall be terminated, 
and the affected transactions resolved or reversed out.  
(c) The PSO shall ensure device binding9 / finger printing of mobile applications with the 
device and SIM. In case the mobile application remains unused beyond a policy 
determined specified period, the PSO shall ensure device binding is performed again. 
(d) The PSO shall ensure that an online session on mobile application is automatically 
terminated after a fixed period of inactivity and customers are prompted to re-login. 
(e) The PSO shall, where applicable, set down the maximum number of failed log -in or 
authentication attempts after which access to the mobile application is blocked. There 
shall be a secure procedure to re -activate the access to blocked product  / service. 
The customer shall be notified for failed log -in or authentication attempts , 
immediately. 
(f) The PSO shall put in place a control mechanism, to identify any presence of remote 
access applications (to the extent possible) and prohibit a ccess to the mobile 
payment application while the remote access is live.  
(g) Whenever there is a change in registered mobile number or email ID linked to the 
payment instrument there shall be a cooling period of minimum 12 hours before 
allowing any payment transaction through online modes / channels.   
 
Card Payments 
32. The PSO shall ensure that terminals installed at merchants for capturing card details for 
payments or otherwise are validated against the PCI -P2PE program; PoS terminals with 
PIN entry installed at the merchants for capturing card payments (including the doubl e 
swipe terminals) shall be approved by the PCI-PTS program.  
33. The card networks shall facilitate  implementation of  transaction limits at card, Bank 
Identification Number (BIN) as well as at card issuer level. Such limits shall mandatorily 
                                                            
9 The device binding shall be preferably implemented through a combination of hardware, software and service 
information.

[Page 15]
15 
 
be set at the card network switch itself. The card networks shall institute a n alert 
mechanism on a 24x7 x365 basis, to be triggered to the card issuer in case of any 
suspicious incident. Card networks shall ensure that card details of the customers are 
stored in an encrypted form at any of their server locations . They shall also ensure that 
processing of the card details in readable format is performed in a secure manner. 
 
Prepaid Payment Instruments  
34. PPI issuers are encouraged to communicate OTP and transaction alerts with users in a 
language of their choice, including vernacular languages. 
35. The PPI issuers – banks and non -banks – shall put in place suitable co oling period for  
funds transfer and cash withdrawal after such funds are electronically loaded on to the 
PPI.

[Page 16]
16 
 
Acronyms 
 
API Application Programming Interface 
ASLC Application Security Life Cycle 
ATM Automated Teller Machine 
BCP Business Continuity Plan 
BIN Bank Identification Number 
CCMP Cyber Crisis Management Plan 
CERT-In Indian Computer Emergency Response Team 
CISO Chief Information Security Officer 
CSP Cloud Service Provider 
DR Disaster Recovery 
EoLS End of Life support 
IDRBT Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology 
IP Internet Protocol 
IS Information System 
ISMS Information Security Management System 
IT Information Technology 
KPI Key Performance Indicator 
KRI Key Risk Indicator 
LEA Law Enforcement Agency 
NCIIPC National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre 
OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer 
OTP One Time Password 
PCI Payment Card Industry 
PCI-DSS Payment Card Industry-Data Security Standard 
PCI-P2PE Payment Card Industry-Point to Point Encryption 
PCI-PTS Payment Card Industry-PIN Transaction Security 
PDC Primary Data Centre 
PIN Personal Identification Number 
PoS Point of Sale 
PPI Prepaid Payment Instrument 
PSO Payment System Operator 
PSS Payment and Settlement Systems 
PT Penetration Testing 
RBI Reserve Bank of India 
RPO Recovery Point Objective 
RTO Recovery Time Objective 
SDLC Software Development Life Cycle 
S-SDLC Secure-Software Development Life Cycle 
SIEM Security Information and Event Management 
SIM Subscriber Identification Module 
SMS Short Message Service 
SOC Security Operations Centre 
VA Vulnerability Assessment 
VPA Virtual Payment Address 
WLAO White Label ATM Operator
