[Page 1]
RBI/FED/2015-16/2 
FED Master Direction No. 6/2015-16 January 1, 2016 
                                                                                                                       (Updated as on February 16, 2026) 
 
To 
 
All Authorised Dealer Category – I banks and Authorised Banks 
 
Madam/ Dear Sir, 
 
Master Direction – Borrowing and Lending transactions in Indian Rupee between Persons 
Resident in India and Non-Resident Indians/ Persons of Indian Origin 
 
Borrowing and lending transactions in Indian Rupees (INR) between persons resident in India 
and Non-Resident Indians/Persons of Indian Origin are governed by clause ( e) of sub-section 3 
of section 6 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 read with Foreign Exchange 
Management (Borrowing and Lending in Rupees ) Regulations, 2000, notified vide Notification 
No. FEMA 4/2000-RB dated May 3, 2000 . T hese Regulations are amended from time to time to 
incorporate the changes in the regulatory framework and published through amendment 
notifications. 
2. Within the contours of the Regulations, Reserve Bank of India also issues di rections to 
Authorised Persons under Section 11 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), 1999. 
These directions lay down the modalities as to how the foreign exchange business has to be 
conducted by the Authorised Persons with their customers/constit uents with a view to 
implementing the regulations framed. 
3. Instructions issued in respect of aforesaid transactions have been compiled in this Master 
Direction as also instructions regarding overdraft in INR  account maintained by a bank outside 
India wit h an authorised dealer in India since the latter set of instructions are also part of 
aforesaid Regulations. The list of underlying notifications / circulars which form the basis of this 
Master Direction is furnished in the Appendix.  Reporting instructions can be found in Master 
Direction on reporting (Master Direction No. 18 dated January 01, 2016) 
4. It may be noted that, whenever necessary, Reserve Bank shall issue directions to Authorised 
Persons through A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars in regard to any change in the Regulations or the 
manner in which relative transactions are to be conducted by the Authorised Persons with their 
customers/ constituents. The Master Direction issued herewith shall be amended suitably 
simultaneously. 
  Yours faithfully, 
                                     
 (Dr. Aditya Gaiha) 
                  C hief General Manager-in-Charge

[Page 2]
1 
 
 
Index 
 
PART I 
1.        Important Terms Used in the Master Direction 
2.        [Deleted] 
2.1      [Deleted] 
2.1.1   [Deleted] 
2.1.2   [Deleted] 
2.1.3   [Deleted] 
2.2      [Deleted] 
3.        Lending by authorised dealers in INR to NRIs 
3.1      Lending for own requirements or own business purposes 
3.2      Lending for acquiring shares under the Employees Stock Option Plan 
4.     Lending in INR by an authorised dealer or a housing finance institution to      
NRI/PIO for housing purpose 
5.        INR loans by Indian body corporate to its NRI/PIO employees 
6.        INR Loans to NRI by Resident Individual 
7.     Change of status of borrower/lender from person resident in India to person 
resident outside India 
7.1     Change of status of borrower to a person resident outside India 
7.2     Change of the status of the lender to a person resident outside India 
PART II 
8.       Overdraft by Authorised Dealer to its Branches/Correspondent Banks/Head  
Office outside India    
Appendix

[Page 3]
2 
 
Acronyms 
 
 
FCNR (B): Foreign Currency Non-Resident (Bank).  
FED:  Foreign Exchange Department. 
FEMA: Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999. 
ESOP: Employee Stock Option Plan. 
HFI:  Housing Finance Institution. 
INR:  Indian Rupee. 
LRS:  Liberalised Remittance Scheme. 
NHB:  National Housing Bank. 
NCD:  Non-Convertible Debenture. 
NRE:  Non-Resident External. 
NRI:  Non-Resident Indian. 
NRO:  Non-Resident Ordinary. 
NRNR: Non-Resident Non-Repatriable. 
NRSR: Non-Resident Special Rupee. 
PIO:  Person of Indian Origin 
RBI:  Reserve Bank of India. 
TDR:  Transferable Development Right.

[Page 4]
3 
 
Master Direction - Borrowing and Lending transactions in Indian Rupee (INR) 
between Persons Resident in India and Non-Resident Indians / Persons of Indian 
Origin 
 
PART I 
1. Important Terms Used in the Master Direction 
1.1 Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms  'A uthorised dealer', ' Authorised 
bank', 'Non- resident Indian (NRI)', 'Person of Indian origin (PIO)', 'NRE account', ' NRO 
account', 'NRNR ac count'1, 'NRSR account' 1, and 'FCNR (B) account' shall have the 
same meanings as assigned to them respectively in Foreign Exchange Management 
(Deposits) Regulations, 2000 notified vide Notification No. FEMA  5/2000-RB dated May 
03, 2000. 
1.2 The terms 'H ousing finance institution' and National Housing Bank' shall have the 
meanings assigned to them in the National Housing Bank Act, 1987. 
1.3 The term ‘Liberalised Remittance Scheme’ means the scheme formulated in terms of 
circular A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 64 dated February 4, 2004  and as amended from 
time to time. 
1.4 The terms ‘Person Resident in India’ and ‘Person Resident outside India’ shall have 
the same meanings as assigned to them in Sections 2(v) and 2(w) of the Foreign 
Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA). 
1.5 ‘Relative’ means a ‘relative’ as defined under the Companies Act, 1956/ 2013: 
Act of 1956 Act of 2013 
U/s 6: MEANING OF "RELATIVE" 
A person shall be deemed to be a relative 
of another, if, and only if, 
(a) they are members of a Hindu 
undivided family ; or 
(b) they are husband and wife ; or 
(c) the one is related to the other in the 
manner indicated in Schedule IA. 
U/s 2(77) ‘‘relative’’, with reference to any 
person, means anyone who is related to 
another, if— 
(i) they are members of a Hindu Undivided 
Family; 
(ii) they are husband and wife; or 
(iii) one person is related to the other in such 
manner as may be prescribed. 
Schedule IA As prescribed 
Father Father (including step-father) 
Mother (including step-mother) Mother (including step-mother) 
Son (including step-son) Son (including step-son) 
Son's wife Son's wife 
Daughter (including step-daughter) Daughter

[Page 5]
4 
 
Act of 1956 Act of 2013 
Father's father Daughter's husband 
Father's mother Brother (including step-brothers) 
Mother's mother Sister (including step-sisters) 
Mother's father - 
Son's son - 
Son's son's wife - 
Son's daughter - 
Son's daughter's husband - 
Daughter's husband - 
Daughter's son - 
Daughter's son's wife - 
Daughter's daughter - 
Daughter's daughter's husband - 
Brother (including step-brothers) - 
Brother's wife - 
Sister (including step-sister) - 
Sister's husband - 
 
1.6 The term 'Transferable Development Right (TDR)' shall have the meaning as 
assigned to it in the Foreign Exchange Management (Permissible Capital Account 
Transactions) Regulations, 2000.  
Notes:  
With effect from April 01, 2002, no deposit, whether  by way of renewal of existing deposit 
or otherwise, can be accepted under the NRNR account Scheme or t he NRSR account 
Scheme. The provisions mentioned in the Master Direction may be read accordingly. 
 
2. i[Deleted] 
3. Lending by authorised dealers in INR to NRIs 
3.1 Lending for own requirements  or own business purposes: An authorised dealer 
in India may grant INR loans to a NRI against security of shares and other securities  or 
against the security of immovable property (other than agricultural or plantation land or 
farm house) held by the latter subject to the following terms and conditions: 
i. The utilisation of loans shall meet the provisions giv en at 2.1.3.i above. Further, 
loan proceeds cannot be used for any other activity where foreign investment is 
not allowed. This shall be applicable even if the loan is utilised in association with 
other person;

[Page 6]
5 
 
ii. The loan amount shall not be remitted outside  India or credited to  
NRE/FCNR(B)/NRNR account of the borrower; 
iii. The directives of RBI on such loans and directives on advances against 
shares/securities/immovable property shall be duly complied with; 
iv. The repayment of loan should be either by inward remitt ance from outside India or 
by debit to NRE/NRO/FCNR(B)/NRNR/NRSR account of the borrower and/or out 
of sale proceeds realised through s ecurities offered for the loans.  Further, these 
loans can also be repaid by any relative (as defined under Companies Act)  of the 
borrower in India through account to account transfer; 
v. Subject to aforesaid terms and conditions and with additional requirements like 
compliance with applicable prudential norms of the RBI, authorised dealer may 
also grant INR l oans to NRI for any other purpose provided it is as per the board 
approval policy of the authorised dealer and loan proceeds are not used for 
investment in capital market i ncluding margin trading and der ivatives. Repayment 
of the loan shall happen by remittance from outside India  or by debit to 
NRE/FCNR(B)/NRO account. 
3.2 Lending for acquiring shares under the Employees Stock Option Plan : An 
Authorised Dealer in India may grant INR loan to NRI employees of Indian companies for 
acquiring shares of the companies under the Empl oyees Stock Option (ESOP) Scheme 
subject to the following terms and conditions: 
i. Lending for ESOP Scheme shall be as per the policy appr oved by the Board of the 
authorised dealer and shall be subjected to capital market exposure norms of the 
RBI and other prudential norms; 
ii. The loan amount should not exceed 90 per cent of the purchase price of the 
shares or INR 20 lakhs per NRI employee, whichever is lower; 
iii. The rate of interest and margin on such loans may be decided by the banks, 
subject to directives issued by the RBI from time to time; 
iv. The amount shall be paid directly to the company and should not be credited to the 
borrowers’ non-resident accounts in India; 
v. The loan amount shall be repaid by way of inward remittances from outside India 
or by debit to NRO/NRE/FCNR(B) account of the borrower.

[Page 7]
6 
 
4. Lending in INR by an authorised dealer or a housing finance institution to 
NRI/PIO for housing purpose 
An authorised or a housing finance institution in India approved by the National Housing 
Bank (NHB) may provide housing loan to a NRI or a PIO for acquisition of a residential 
accommodation in India subject to the following terms and conditions:  
i. The quantum of loans, margin money and the period of repayment shall be at par 
with those applicable to housing finance provided to a person resident in  India;  
ii. The loan amount shall not be credited to NRE/FCNR (B)/NRNR account of the 
borrower;    
iii. The loan shall be fully secured by equitable mortgage of the property proposed to 
be acquired, and if necessary, also by lien on the borrower's other assets in India;   
iv. The instalment of loan, interest and other charges, if any, shall be paid by 
remittances from o utside India or out of funds in NRE/  FCNR(B)/ NRNR/ NRO/ 
NRSR account of the borrower or out of rental income derived from renting out the 
property acquired or by any relative of the borrower in India by crediting the 
borrower's loan account through account to account transfer; 
v. The rate of interest on the loan shall conform to the directives issued, if any, by the 
RBI and/ or NHB. 
5. INR loans by Indian body corporate to its NRI/PIO employees 
A body corporate registered or incorporated in India may grant rupee loan to its NR I/PIO 
employees subject to the following terms and conditions: 
i. The loan shall be granted only for perso nal purposes including purchase of  
housing property in India; 
ii. The loan shall be granted in accordance with the lender's Staff Welfare  
Scheme/Staff Housing Loan Scheme and other terms and conditions applicable  to 
its staff resident in India; 
iii. The lender shal l ensure that the loan amount is not used for the purposes  
mentioned under 2.1.3 above; 
iv. The lender shall credit the loan amount to the borrower's NRO a ccount or shall 
ensure credit to such account by specific indication on the payment instrument;

[Page 8]
7 
 
v. The repayment of loan shall be made only by way of remittance from outside India 
or from NRE/NRO/FCNR(B) account of the borrower and by no other source. This 
condition shall be inbuilt in the loan agreement. 
6. INR Loans to NRI by Resident Individual 
A resident individual may grant INR loan to a NRI relative by way of crossed 
cheque/electronic transfer subject to the following terms and conditions: 
i. The loan is free of interest and the minimum maturity of the loan is one year;  
ii. The loan amount should be within the overall limit under the Liberalised 
Remittance Scheme per financial year available for a resident individual, who shall 
ensure that the applicable limit is not breached; 
iii. The utilisation of loans shall meet the provisions given at 2.1.3.i above;  
iv. The loan am ount shall not be remitted outside India but shall be c redited to the 
NRO account of the borrower; 
v. Repayment of loan shall be made by w ay of inward remittances from outside India 
or by debit to the NRO/NRE/FCNR(B) account of the borrower or out of the sale  
proceeds of the shares or securities or immovable property against which such 
loan was granted. 
7. Change of status of borrower/lender  from person resi dent in India to person 
resident outside India 
7.1 Change of status of borrower to a person resident outside India: In case of 
change of status of a borrower who has taken Rupee loan/overdraft from an authorised 
dealer bank, from a person resident in India to a person resident outside India, the 
authorised dealer bank may allow continuance of loan/overdraft  till its original maturity 
subject to the satisfaction of the lender. So long as the borrower continues to remain a 
person resident out side India, t he r epayment shall be out of inward remittance from 
outside India or from NRE/FCNR(B)/NRNR/NRO/NRSR account of the borrower.

[Page 9]
8 
 
7.2 Change of the status of the lender to a person resident outside India: In case a 
rupee loan was granted by a perso n resident in India to another person resident in India 
and the lender subsequently becomes a person resident outside India, the repayment of 
the loan by the resident borrower should be made by credit to the NRO account of the 
lender.  
PART II 
8. Overdraft by Authorised De aler to its Branches/Correspondent Banks/Head 
Office outside India    
An authorised dealer may permit a temporary overdraft, for value not exceeding INR five 
hundred lakhs, in INR accounts maintained with him by its branches or correspondents or 
Head Offic e outside India, subject to such terms and conditions as the Reserve Bank 
may direct from time to time.  For the purpose of calculating the ceiling of INR five 
hundred lakhs, the aggregate amount of overdrafts permitted by the authorised dealer to 
all his b ranches, correspondents and Head Office outside India shall be taken into 
account.

[Page 10]
9 
 
APPENDIX 
 
List of notifications/ circulars which have been consolidated in this Master 
Direction 
Sl No Notification/ Circular Date 
 Notification  
1 FEMA Notification No.4/2000-RB May 03, 2000 
 
2 FEMA Notification No.31/2000-RB November 27, 2000 
 
3 FEMA Notification No.52/2002-RB March 01, 2002 
 
4 FEMA Notification No.67/2002-RB August 20, 2002 
 
5 FEMA Notification No.115/2004-RB March 25, 2004 
 
6 FEMA Notification No.117/2004-RB May 25, 2004 
 
7 FEMA Notification No.160/2007-RB May 18, 2007 
 
8 FEMA Notification No.238/2012-RB September 25, 2012 
 
9 FEMA Notification No.287/2013-RB September 17, 2013 
 
10 FEMA Notification No. 3(R)(5)/2026-RB February 16, 2026 
 A.D (MA) / A.P.(DIR Series) Circular  
 
1 A.D. (MA) Circular No. 11 May 16, 2000 
 
2 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 28 March 30, 2001 
 
3 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 28 March 04, 2002 
 
4 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 27 October 10, 2003 
 
5 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 69 February 12, 2004 
 
6 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 9 September 01, 2004 
 
7 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 93 May 25, 2004 
 
8 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 7 August 22, 2007 
 
9 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 18 September 16, 2011 
 
10 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 19 September 16, 2011 
 
11 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 81 December 24, 2013 
 
12 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 22 February 16, 2026

[Page 11]
10 
 
 
 
i Deleted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 22 dated February 16, 2026. Deleted portion read as                         
“2.  Persons Resident in India borrowing in INR from NRIs/PIOs 
2.1 Available routes for borrowing: Persons resident  in Indian may borrow in INR from NRIs/PIOs under the 
following two routes: 
2.1.1 Borrowing in INR by persons other than companies in India: A person resident in India, not being a 
company incorporated in India, may borrow in INR from NRIs/PIOs after satisfying the following terms and 
conditions: 
i. Borrowing shall be only on a non-repatriation basis; 
ii. The amount of loan should be received either by inward remittance from outside India or by debit to 
NRE/NRO/FCNR(B)/NRNR/NRSR account of the lender, maintained with an authorised dealer or an 
authorised bank in India; 
iii. Period of loan shall not exceed 3 years; 
iv. Rate of interest on the loan shall not be more than two per cent above Bank Rate prevailing on the date 
of availment of loan; 
v. Payment of interest and repayment of principal shall be made only to the NRO account of the lender.  
2.1.2 Borrowing in INR by companies in India: A company incorporated in India may borrow in INR, on repatriation 
or non-repatriation basis, from NRIs/PIOs after satisfying the following terms and conditions:  
i. Borrowing company does not and shall not: 
a. Carry on agricultural/plantation/real estate business; or 
b. Trade in transferable development rights; or 
c. Act as Nidhi or Chit fund company. 
ii. Borrowing is by issuance of non-convertible debentures (NCDs); 
iii. The issue of NCDs is made by public offer; 
iv. The rate of interest is not more than the prime lending rate of State Bank of India as on the date on which 
the resolution approving the issue is passed in the borrowing company’s General Body Meeting plus three 
per cent; 
v. Period of loan shall not be less than three years; 
vi. If the borrowing is on repatriation basis then the percentage of NCDs issued to NRIs/PIOs to the total paid 
up value of all NCDs issued shall not exceed the ceiling prescribed for issue of equity shares/convertible 
debentures for foreign direct investment in India. Further, the funds towards borrowing should be

[Page 12]
11 
 
 
received through inward remittance from outside India or by debit to NRE/FCNR (B) account of the 
investor maintained with an authorised dealer or an authorised bank in India;  
vii.  If the borrowing is on non- repatriation basis from NRIs/PI Os then the amount of loan should be received 
either by inward remittance from outside India or by debit to NRE/NRO/FCNR(B)/NRNR/NRSR account of 
the investor maintained with an authorised dealer or an aut horised bank in India. Payment of interest 
and repayment of principal shall be made only to the NRO account of the lender.  
2.1.3. Restriction on use of borrowed funds: Use of proceeds of funds borrowed within the provisions given under 
2.1.1 and 2.1.2 is subject to the following restrictions: 
i. The proceeds shall be utilised only for the own business of the borrower other than what is mentioned at 
2.1.2.i above. Additionally, construction of farm houses will also not be permitted. This restriction on real 
estate does not include development of townships, construction of residential/ commercial premises, 
roads or bridges. 
ii. The proceeds shall not be used for investment or for on- lending in any manner whatsoever. The Reserve 
Bank may, however, permit these borrowers to use the amount so borrowed for on- lending to  
infrastructure sector or to keep them in fixed deposits with banks in India, pending utilisation for 
permissible end-uses. 
2.2 Reporting Requirements: For borrowing  under 2.1.2 above, the borrowing company should file with the 
nearest office of the RBI, not later than 30 days from the date of: 
2.2.1 Receipt of remittance for investment in NCDs, full details of the remittances received, viz., (a) a list 
containing names and addresses of NRIs who have remitted funds for investment on repatriation and/or non-
repatriation basis,  (b) amount and date of receipt of remittance and its rupee equivalent; and (c) names and 
addresses of authorised dealers through whom the remittance has been received; as also  
2.2.2  Issue of NCDs, full details of the investment, viz., (a) a list containing names and addresses of NRIs and 
number of NCDs issued to each of them on repatriation and/or non- repatriation basis and (b) a certificate from its 
Company Secretary that all applicable provisions in regard to issue of NCDs have been duly complied with. ”
