[Page 1]
RBI/FED/2015-16/11 
FED Master Direction No. 16/2015-16 
January 1, 2016 
(Updated as on July 17, 2026) 
(Updated as on June 05, 2026) 
(Updated as on January 12, 2026) 
(Updated as on November 14, 2025) 
(Updated as on October 09, 2025) 
(Updated as on October 01, 2025) 
(Updated as on August 05, 2025) 
(Updated as on April 29, 2025) 
(Updated as on April 23, 2025) 
(Updated as on March 17, 2025) 
(Updated as on January 16, 2025) 
(Updated as on August 29, 2024) 
(Updated as on November 22, 2022) 
(Updated as on January 08, 2021) 
(Updated as on October 19, 2020) 
(Updated as on January 12, 2018) 
(Updated as on November 16, 2017) 
(Updated as on September 15, 2017) 
(Updated as on May 26, 2016) 
(Updated as on May 12, 2016) 
To, 
All Authorised Dealer Category – I banks 
Madam / Sir, 
Master Direction – Export of Goods and Services 
Export of Goods and Services from India is governed by Section 7 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act 
1999 (42 of 1999), read with Notification No. G.S.R. 381(E) dated May 3, 2000 viz. Foreign Exchange 
Management (Current Account Transactions)  Rules, 2000 and 1FEMA Notification No.23(R)/2015- RB dated 
January 12, 2016 . These  Regulations are amended from time to time to incorporate the changes in the 
regulatory framework and published through amendment notifications. 
2. Within the contours of the Regulations, Reserve Bank of India also issues directions to Authorised Persons 
under Section 10(4) and Section 11(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), 1999. These 
directions lay down the modalities as to how the foreign exchange business has to be conducted by the 
Authorised Persons with their customers/ constituents with a view to implementing the regulations framed.  
3. Instructions issued on export of goods and services from India have been compiled in this Master Direction. 
The list of underlying circulars/ notifications which form the basis of this Master Direction is  furnished in the 
Appendix. Reporting instructions can be found in Master Directions on reporting ( Master Direction No. 18 dated 
January 01, 2016) 
4. It may be noted that, whenever necessary, Reserve Bank shall issue directions to Authorised Persons through 
A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars in regard to any change in the Regulations or the manner in which relative 
transactions are to be conducted by the Authorised Persons with their customers/ constituents. The Master 
Direction issued herewith shall be amended suitably simultaneously.  This Master Direction is issued under 
Sections 10(4) and 11(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and is without prejudice to 
permissions/ approvals, if any, required under any other law. 
Yours faithfully, 
(N. Senthil Kumar) 
Chief General Manager 
 
1 FEM (Export of Goods and Services) Regulations, 2000 was repealed and replaced by FEM (Export of Goods and Services) Regulations, 
2015 with effect from January 12, 2016.

[Page 2]
INDEX 
PART – A  General 
A.1 Introduction 
A.2 Realization and repatriation of proceeds of export of goods / software / services 
A.3 Manner of receipt and payment 
A.4 Foreign Currency Account 
A.5 Diamond Dollar Account (DDA) 
A.6 Exchange Earners’ Foreign Currency Account (EEFC Account) 
A.7 Counter-Trade Arrangement 
A.8 Exports to neighboring countries by road, rail or river 
A.9 Border trade with Myanmar 
A.10 Counter –Trade arrangements with Romania 
A.11 Repayment of State credits 
A.12 Forfaiting 
A.13 Export factoring on non-recourse basis 
A.14 Project Exports and Service Exports 
A.15 Export of goods on lease, hire, etc. 
A.16 Export on elongated credit terms 
A.17 Export of currency 
PART – B  EDF / SOFTEX Procedure 
B.1 Export of goods through Customs ports 
B.2 Export of goods/ software done through EDI ports 
B.3 Export of goods through post 
B.4 Mid-sea trans-shipment of catch by deep sea fishing vessels 
B.5 SOFTEX Forms 
B.6 Citing of specific identification numbers 
B.7 Export of services 
B.8 Third party export proceeds 
B.9 Random verification 
B.10 Short Shipments and Shut out Shipments 
B.11 Consolidation of air cargo/ sea cargo 
B.12 Exemption from Declaration 
PART –C Obligations of Authorised Dealers 
C.1 Grant of EDF waiver 
C.2 Receipt of advance against exports 
C.3 EDF Approval for Trade Fair/Exhibitions abroad 
C.4 EDF approval for export of goods for re-imports 
C.5 Re-export of unsold rough diamonds from Special Notified Zone of Customs without 
Export Declaration Form (EDF) formality 
C.6 Foreign Currency accounts of Overseas branches/office, representatives of Indian 
entities 
C.7 Delay in submission of shipping documents by exporters 
C.8 Return of documents to exporters 
C.9 Landlocked countries 
C.10 Direct dispatch of documents by the exporter 
C.11 Part Drawings /Undrawn Balances 
C.12 Consignment Exports 
C.13 Opening / hiring of warehouses abroad 
C.14 Export Bills Register 
C.15 Follow-up of overdue bills

[Page 3]
C.16 Reduction in invoice value on account of prepayment of usance bills 
C.17 Reduction in invoice value in other cases 
C.18 Change of buyer/consignee 
C.19 Export of goods by Special Economic Zones (SEZs) 
C.20 Extension of time 
C.21 Shipments lost in transit 
C.22 Export claims 
C.23 Write-off of unrealised export bills 
C.24 Write off in cases of payment of c laims by ECGC and private insurance companies 
regulated by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) 
C.25 Write-off relaxation 
C.26 Set-off of export receivables against import payables 
C.27 Netting-off of export receivables against import payments – Units in (SEZs) 
C.28 Exporters' Caution List 
C.29 Omitted 
C.30 Issuance of Electronic Bank Realisation Certificate (eBRC) 
C.31 Export Data Processing and Monitoring System (EDPMS) – reconciliation of export 
entries – Special Procedure 
Part-D Remittances connected with Export 
D.1 Agency commission on exports 
D.2 Refund of export proceeds 
Appendix

[Page 4]
PART-A General 
A.1 Introduction 
(i) Export trade is regulated by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) and its 
regional offices, functioning under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Department of 
Commerce, Government of India. Policies and procedures required to be followed for exports 
from India are announced by the DGFT, from time to time. 
(ii) AD Category – I banks may conduct export transactions in conformity with the Foreign 
Trade Policy in vogue and the Rules framed by the Government of India and the Directions 
issued by Reserve Bank from time to time. In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) 
of sub-section (1) and sub- section (3) of Section 7 and sub- section (2) of Section 47 of the 
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999), the Reserve Bank has notified the 
2Foreign Exchange Management (Export of Goods and Services) Regulations, 2015 relating 
to export of goods and services from India, hereinafter referred to as the ‘Export Regulations’. 
These Regulations have been notified vide Notification No.  FEMA 23(R)/2015- RB dated 
January 12, 2016.  
(iii) The directions contained in this document should be read with the Foreign Exchange 
Management (Current Account Transactions) Rules, 2000, notified by the Government of 
India, Ministry of Finance, vide Notification No.G.S.R.381 (E) dated May 3, 2000, as also 
Regulations notified by Reserve Bank vide its  2Notification No. FEMA 23(R)/2015- RB dated 
January 12, 2016. 
 (iv) For issuance of guarantees, AD Banks may be guided by Foreign Exchange 
Management (Guarantees) Regulations, 20263. 
(v) There is no restriction on invoicing of export contracts in Indian Rupees in terms of the 
Rules, Regulations, Notifications and Directions framed under the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act 1999. Further, in terms of Para 2.52 of the Foreign Trade Policy, 2023,  
(a) All export contracts and invoices shall be denominated either in freely convertible 
currency or Indian rupees but export proceeds shall be realised in freely convertible 
currency. 
(b) However, export proceeds against specific exports may also be realised in rupees, 
provided it is through a freely convertible Vostro account of a non- resident bank situated in 
 
2 FEM (Export of Goods and Services) Regulations, 2000 was repealed and replaced by FEM (Export of Goods and Services) Regulati ons, 
2015 with effect from January 12, 2016. 
3 Substituted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated January 12, 2026. Prior to substitution, Para A.1(iv) read as follows: 
“(iv) In terms of Regulation 4 of the Foreign Exchange Management (Guarantees) Regulations, 2000, notified vide Notification No. FEMA 
8/2000-RB dated May 3, 2000 , AD Category  – I banks have been permitted to issue guarantees on behalf of exporter clients on account of 
exports out of India subject to specified conditions.”

[Page 5]
any country other than a member country of Asian Clearing Union (ACU) or Nepal or 
Bhutan. Additionally, rupee payment through Vostro account must be against payment in 
free foreign currency by buyer in his non- resident bank account. Free foreign exchange 
remitted by buyer to his non- resident bank (after deducting bank service charges) on 
account of this transaction would be taken as export realization under export promotion 
schemes of FTP. 
(c) Contracts (for which payments are received through Asian Clearing Union (ACU) shall be 
denominated in ACU Dollar. However, participants in the ACU may settle their transactions 
in ACU Dollar or in ACU Euro as per RBI Notifications. Central Government may relax 
provisions of this paragraph in appropriate cases. Export contracts and invoices can be 
denominated in Indian rupees against EXIM Bank/Government of India line of credit. 
(d) Invoicing, payment and settlement of exports and imports is also permissible in INR 
subject to compliances as under RBI’s A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.10 dated 11th July, 
2022 read with A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 08 dated August 05, 2025 4. Accordingly, 
settlement of trade transactions in INR shall take place through the Special Rupee Vostro 
Accounts opened by AD banks in India as permitted under Regulation 7(1) of Foreign 
Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016, in accordance to the following 
procedures: 
(i) Indian importers undertaking imports through this mechanism shall make payment in INR 
which shall be credited into the Special Vostro account of the correspondent bank of the 
partner country, against the invoices for the supply of goods or services from the overseas 
seller /supplier. 
(ii) Indian exporters, undertaking exports of goods and services through this mechanism, shall 
be paid the export proceeds in INR from the balances in the designated Special Vostro 
account of the correspondent bank of the partner country. 
(vi) Any reference to the Reserve Bank should first be made to the Regional Office of the 
Foreign Exchange Department situated in the jurisdiction where the applicant person resides, 
or the firm / company functions, unless otherwise indicated. If, for any particular reason, they 
desire to deal with a different office of the Foreign Exchange Department, they may approach 
the Regional Office of their jurisdiction for necessary  approval. Such references should be 
routed through the Compliance Head of the AD bank. 
(vii) “Financial Year” (April to March) is reckoned as the time base for all transactions 
pertaining to trade related issues. 
A.2 Realization and repatriation of proceeds of export of goods / software / services 
It is obligatory on the part of the exporter to realise  and repatriate the full value of goods / 
software / services to India within a stipulated period from the date of export, as under: 
 
4 Inserted by A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 08 dated August 05, 2025

[Page 6]
(i) It has been decided in consultation with the Government of India that the period of 
realization and repatriation of export proceeds shall be nine months56 from the date of export 
for all exporters including Units in Special Economic Zones ( SEZs), Status Holder Expor ters, 
Export Oriented Units ( EOUs), Units in Electronic Hardware Technology Parks ( EHTPs), 
Software Technology Parks (STPs) & Bio-Technology Parks (BTPs) until further notice. 
7(ii) Due to the outbreak of pandemic COVID -19, it was decided, in consultation with the 
Government of India, to increase the period of realization and repatriation to India of the 
amount representing the full export value of goods or software or services exported, from nine 
months to fifteen months from the date of export, for the exports made up to or on July 31, 
2020. 
(iii) For g oods exported to a warehouse established outside India, the proceeds  shall be 
realised within fifteen months from the date of shipment of goods. 
8(iv) In terms of A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 03 dated April 23, 2025 , AD banks may allow 
exporters to realise and repatriate full export value of goods exported to ‘Bharat Mart’ within 
nine months from the date of sale of the goods from the warehouse. 
A.3 Manner of receipt and payment 
(i) The amount representing the full export value of the goods exported shall be received 
through an AD Bank in the manner specified in the Foreign Exchange Management (Manner 
of Receipt & Payment) Regulations, 2023 notified vide Notification No. FEMA 14(R)/2023-RB 
dated December 21, 2023. 
(ii) When payment for goods sold to overseas buyers during their visits is received in this 
manner, EDF (duplicate) should be released by the AD Category – I banks only on receipt of 
funds in their Nostro account or if the AD Category – I bank concerned is not the Credit Card 
servicing bank, on production of a certificate by the exporter from the Credit Card servicing 
bank in India to the effect that it has received the equivalent amount in foreign exchange, AD 
Category – I banks may also receive payment for exports made out of India by debit to the 
credit card of an importer where the reimbursement from the card issuing bank/ organization 
will be received in foreign exchange. 
(iii) Processing of export related receipts through Online Payment Gateways 
 
5  Substituted vide Notification No. FEMA 23 (R)(7)/2025-RB dated November 13, 2025. Prior to substitution, it read as: 
“nine months” 
6 Substituted vide Notification No. FEMA 23 (R)(8)/2026-RB dated June 05, 2026. Prior to substitution, it read as: “fifteen 
months” 
7 Inserted by AP (DIR Series) Circular 27 dated April 01, 2020 
8 Inserted by AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 03 dated April 23, 2025

[Page 7]
Processing of export related receipts through online payment gateways shall be in terms of 
Notification No. CO.DPSS.POLC.No.S-786/02-14-008/2023-24 dated October 31, 2023. 
9 
(iv) Settlement System under ACU Mechanism 
10a) In order to facilitate transactions / settlements, effective March 06, 2020, participants in 
the Asian Clearing Union will have the option to settle their transactions either in ACU Dollar 
or in ACU Euro  or in ACU Japanese Yen. Accordingly, the Asian Monetary Unit (AMU) shall  
be denominated as ‘ACU Dollar’, ‘ACU Euro’ and ‘ACU Yen’ which shall be equivalent in 
value to one US Dollar, one Euro and one Japanese Yen, respectively. 
b) Further, AD Category – I banks are allowed to open and maintain ACU Dollar , ACU Euro 
and ACU Japanese Yen  accounts with their correspondent banks in other participating 
countries. All eligible payments are required to be settled by the concerned banks through 
these accounts. 
c) Relaxation from ACU Mechanism- Indo-Myanmar Trade - Trade transactions with Myanmar 
can be settled in any freely convertible currency in addition to the ACU mechanism. 
d) In view of the difficulties being experienced by importers/exporters in payments to / receipts 
from Iran, it has been decided that with effect from December 27, 2010, all eligible current 
account transactions including trade transactions with Iran should be settled in any permitted 
currency outside the ACU mechanism, until further notice. 
e) 11All eligible current account transactions including trade transactions with Sri Lanka may  
be settled in any permitted currency outside the ACU mechanism  with effect from July 08, 
2022, until further notice. 
f) In view of the understanding reached among the members of the ACU during the 44th 
Meeting of the ACU Board in June, 2015, use of the Nostro accounts of the commercial banks 
of the ACU member countries, i.e., the ACU Dollar , ACU Euro  and ACU Japanese Yen  
accounts, for settling the payments of both exports and imports of goods and services among 
the ACU countries is permitted.  
g) Notwithstanding the above, it may be noted that operations in ‘ACU Euro’ have been 
temporarily suspended with effect from July 01, 2016. 
12h) In the wake of signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between RBI and 
Maldives Monetary Authority in November 2024 for establishing a framework to promote the 
 
9 omitted 
10 Inserted by AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 22 dated March 17, 2020 
11 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.09 dated July 08, 2022

[Page 8]
use of local currencies i.e., Indian Rupee (INR) and Maldivian Rufiyaa (MVR) for bilateral 
transactions, vide A.P. (DIR) Circular No 22 dated March 17, 2025, it has been decided that 
India’s bilateral trade transactions with Maldives may also be settled in INR and/or MVR in 
addition to the ACU mechanism, as hitherto. 
(v) Third party payments for export / import transactions 
Taking into account the evolving international trade practices, it has been decided to permit 
third party payments for export / import transactions subject to conditions as under: 
a) Firm irrevocable order backed by a tripartite agreement should be in place. However, it 
may not be insisted upon in cases where documentary evidence for circumstances leading to 
third party payments / name of the third party being mentioned in the irrevocable order/ 
invoice has been produced subject to: 
 (i) AD bank should be satisfied with the bona- fides of the transaction and export documents, 
such as, invoice / FIRC. 
(ii) AD bank should consider the FATF statements while handling such transaction. 
b) Third party payment should be routed through the banking channel only; 
c) The exporter should declare the third party remittance in the Export Declaration Form and it 
would be responsibility of the Exporter to realise and repatriate the export proceeds from such 
third party named in the EDF; 
d) It would be responsibility of the Exporter to realise  and repatriate the export proceeds from 
such third party named in the EDF; 
e) Reporting of outstanding, if any,  would continue to be shown against the name of the 
exporter. However, instead of the name of the overseas buyer from where the proceeds have 
to be realise, the name of the declared third party should appear in the outstanding report. 
f) In case of shipments being made to a country in Group II of Restricted Cover Countries, 
(e.g. Sudan, Somalia, etc.), payments for the same may be received from an Open Cover 
Country; and 
g) In case of imports, the Invoice should contain a narration that the related payment has to 
be made to the (named) third party, the Bill of Entry should mention the name of the shipper 
as also the narration that the related payment has to be made to the (named) third party and 
the importer should comply with the related extant instructions relating to imports including 
those on advance payment being made for import of goods. 
 
 
12 Inserted by A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 22 dated March 17, 2025

[Page 9]
(vi) 13Settlement of Export transactions in currencies not having a direct exchange rate 
To further liberalise  the procedure and facilitate settlement of export transactions where the 
invoicing is in a freely convertible currency and the settlement takes place in the currency of 
the beneficiary, which though convertible, does not have a direct exchange rate, it has been 
decided that AD Category -I banks may permit settlement of such export transactions 
(excluding those put through the ACU mechanism), subject to conditions as under: 
a) Exporter shall be a customer of the AD Bank, 
b) Signed contract / invoice is in a freely convertible currency, 
c) The beneficiary is willing to receive the payment in the currency of beneficiary instead of 
the original (freely convertible) currency of the invoice/ contract, Letter of Credit as full and 
final settlement, 
d) AD bank is satisfied with the bonafides of the transactions, and 
e) The counterparty to the exporter/ importer of the AD bank is not from a country or 
jurisdiction in the updated FATF Public Statement on High Risk & Non Co- operative 
Jurisdictions on which FATF has called for counter measures. 
14 15 16 17 18(vii) Special Rupee Vostro Accounts (SRVAs)  
 
13 Inserted by AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 42 dated February 4, 2016 
14 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 10 dated July 11, 2022 
15 Modified vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated January 12, 2026 
16 Inserted by A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 14 dated October 03, 2025 
17 Inserted by A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 08 dated August 05, 2025 
18 Substituted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated July 17, 2026. Prior to Substitution, it read as  
“(vii)   International Trade Settlement in Indian Rupees (INR) 
a) In order to promote growth of global trade with emphasis on exports from India and to support the increasing interest of 
global trading community in INR, it has been decided to put in place with effect from July 11, 2022 an additional arrangement  
for invoicing, payment, and settlement of exports / imports in INR. Before putting in place this mechanism, AD banks shall 
require prior approval from the Foreign Exchange Department of Reserve Bank of India, Central Office at Mumbai. 
b) The broad framework for cross border trade transactions in INR under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA) 
is as delineated below: 
(i) All exports and imports under this arrangement may be denominated and invoiced in Rupee (INR). 
(ii) Exchange rate between the currencies of the two trading partner countries may be market determined. 
(iii) The settlement of trade transactions under this arrangement shall take place in INR in accordance with the procedure laid 
down in Para c. 
c) In terms of Regulation 7(1) of Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016, AD banks in India have been 
permitted to open Rupee Vostro Accounts. Accordingly, for settlement of trade transactions with any country, AD bank in 
India may open Special Rupee Vostro Accounts of correspondent bank/s of the partner trading country. In order to allow 
settlement of international trade transactions through this arrangement, it has been decided that: 
(i) Indian importers undertaking imports through this mechanism shall make payment in INR which shall be credited into the 
Special Vostro account of the correspondent bank of the partner country, against the invoices for the supply of goods or 
services from the overseas seller /supplier. 
(ii) Indian exporters undertaking exports of goods and services through this mechanism, shall be paid the export proceeds in 
INR from the balances in the designated Special Vostro account of the correspondent bank of the partner country. 
d) The export / import undertaken and settled in this manner shall be subject to usual documentation and reporti ng 
requirements. Letter of Credit (LC) and other trade related documentation may be decided mutually between banks of the 
partner trading countries under the overall framework of Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits (UCPDC)

[Page 10]
a) Authorised Dealer Category -I banks in India may open Special Rupee Vostro Accounts 
(SRVAs) of its branch outside India or a bank resident outside India, in terms of Regulation 
7(1) of Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016. 
b) The settlement of cross -border trade transactions through SRVA is an additional 
arrangement for invoicing, payment and settlement of exports and imports in INR. 
Additionally, al l permissible capital and current account transactions under FEMA may be 
settled through the SRVA. Further, AD banks maintaining SRVA are also permitted to open 
additional current account for exporter/importer, exclusively for settlement of export/import 
transactions. 
c) SRVA may be funded by way of inward remittances or transfer from other repatriable INR 
accounts in terms of Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016. The 
proceeds accrued through permissible current and capital account transactions under FEMA 
can also be held in the SRVA. 
d) Investments in debt instruments out of the balances held in the SRVA shall be governed 
by the Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Non- resident Investment in Debt 
Instruments) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time. 
e) Documentation and reporting of cross-border transactions through SRVA shall be done in 
terms of the extant guidelines under FEMA 1999, issued from time to time. The details of 
SRVA held by overseas correspondent banks with AD banks in India may be updated 
periodically in the ‘SRVA directory’, published by FEDAI. 
 
 
 
and incoterms. Exchange of messages in safe, secure, and efficient way may be agreed mutually between the banks of 
partner countries. 
e) Indian exporters may receive advance payment against exports from overseas importers in Indian rupees through the 
above Rupee Payment Mechanism. Before allowing any such receipt of advance payment against exports, Indian Banks 
shall ensure that available funds in these accounts are first used towards payment obligations arising out of already executed 
export orders / export payments in the pipeline. The said permission would be in accordance with the conditions mentioned in 
para-C.2 on Receipt of advance against exports under Master Direction on Export of Goods and Services 2016 (as amended 
from time to time). In order to ensure that the advance is released only as per the instructions of the overseas importer, the 
Indian bank maintaining the Special Vostro account of its correspondent bank shall, apart from usual due diligence 
measures, verify the claim of the exporter with the advice received from the correspondent bank before releasing the 
advance. 
f) ‘Set-off’ of export receivables against import payables in respect of the same overseas buyer and supplier with facility to 
make/receive payment of the balance of export receivables/import payables, if any, through the Rupee Payment Mechanism 
may be allowed, subject to the conditions mentioned in para C.26 on Set -off of export receivables against import payables 
under Master Direction on Export of Goods and Services 2016 (as amended from time to time). 
g) Issue of Bank Guarantee for trade transactions, undertaken through this arrangement, is permitted subject to adherence to 
provisions of Foreign Exchange Management (Guarantees) Regulations, 2026 , as amended from time to time and the 
provisions of Master Direction on Guarantees & Co-acceptances. 
h) The Rupee surplus balance held may be used for permissible capital and current account transactions in accordance with 
mutual agreement. The balance in Special Vostro Accounts can be used for: 
(i) Payments for projects and investments. 
(ii) Export/Import advance flow management 
(iii) Investment in Government Treasury Bills, Government securities, etc. in terms of exta nt guidelines and prescribed limits, 
subject to FEMA and similar statutory provision. 
(iv)  Non-convertible debentures/bonds and commercial papers issued by an Indian company in terms of guidelines and limits 
prescribed vide AP DIR Circular No.13 dated October 03, 2025. 
i) Reporting of cross- border transactions need to be done in terms of the extant guidelines under FEMA 1999. 
j) AD Category -I banks may open/close Special Rupee Vostro Accounts in the name of their overseas branches or 
correspondents without prior reference to the Reserve Bank AD bank maintaining the Special Rupee Vostro Account shall 
ensure that the correspondent bank is not from a country or jurisdiction in the updated FATF Public Statement on High Risk 
& Non Co-operative Jurisdictions on which FATF has called for counter measures.

[Page 11]
A.4 Foreign Currency Account 
(i) Participants in international exhibition/trade fair have been granted general permission vide 
19Regulation 5(E)(5) of Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign Currency Accounts by a 
person Resident in India) Regulations dated January 21, 2016  f or opening a temporary 
foreign currency account abroad. Exporters may deposit the foreign exchange obtained by 
sale of goods at the international exhibition/  trade fair and operate the account during their 
stay outside India provided that the balance in the account is repatriated to India through 
normal banking channels within a period of one month from the date of closure of the 
exhibition/trade fair and full details are submitted to the AD Category – I banks concerned. 
(ii) Reserve Bank may consider applications in Form EFC from exporters having good track 
record for opening a foreign currency account with AD banks in India and outside India 
subject to certain terms and conditions. Applications for opening the account with a branch of 
an AD Category – I bank in India may be submitted through the branch at which the account 
is to be maintained. If the account is to be maintained abroad the application should be made 
by the exporter giving details of the bank with which the account will be maintained. 
(iii) An Indian entity can also open, hold and maintain a foreign currency account with a bank 
outside India, in the name of its overseas office/branch, by making remittance for the purpose 
of normal business operations of the said office/branch or representative subject to conditions 
stipulated in 20Regulation 5 (B) of Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign Currency 
Accounts by a person Resident in India) Regulations dated January 21, 2016. 
(iv) A unit located in a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) may open, hold and maintain a Foreign 
Currency Account with an AD Category – I bank in India subject to conditions stipulated in 
21Regulation 4 (D) of Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign Currency Accounts by a 
person Resident in India) Regulations dated January 21, 2016.  
(v) A person resident in India being a project / service exporter may open, hold and maintain 
foreign currency account with a bank outside or in India, subject to the standard terms and 
conditions in the Memorandum PEM. 
22(vi)  
 
19 Inserted by FEM (Foreign Currency Accounts by a person Resident in India) Regulations, 2015 with effect from January 21, 2016. Prior 
to insertion it read as “Regulation 7(7) of the Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign Currency Accounts by a person Resident in India) 
Regulations, 2000 notified vide Notification No. FEMA 10/2000-RB dated May 3, 2000” 
20 Inserted by FEM (Foreign Currency Accounts by a person Resident in India) Regulations, 2015 with effect from January 21, 2016 . Prior 
to insertion it read as “Regulation 7 of Notification No. FEMA 10/2000-RB dated May 3, 2000” 
21 Inserted by FEM (Foreign Currency Accounts by a person Resident in India) Regulations, 2015 with effect from January 21, 2016. Prior 
to insertion it read as “Regulation 6 (A) of Notification No. FEMA 10/2000-RB dated May 3, 2000” 
22 Substituted vide Notification No. FEMA 10(R)(7)/2025-RB dated October 06, 2025. Prior to substitution it read as ‘A person resident in 
India, being an exporter, may open, hold and maintain a Foreign Currency Account with a bank outside India, for realisation o f full

[Page 12]
A person resident in India, being an exporter, may open, hold and maintain a Foreign 
Currency Account with a bank outside India, for realisation of full export value and advance 
remittance received by the exporter towards export of goods or services. Funds in this 
account may be utilised by the exporter for paying for its imports into India or repatriated into 
India within a period not exceeding the end of 
(a) three months in case of accounts maintained with banks in an International Financial 
Services Centre; or 
(b) next month for all other jurisdictions;  
from the date of receipt of the funds after adjusting for forward commitments, provided that 
the realisation and repatriation requirements as specified in the Foreign Exchange 
Management (Export of Goods and Services) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to 
time, are also met. 
A.5 Diamond Dollar Account (DDA) 
(i) Under the scheme of Government of India, firms and companies dealing in purchase / sale 
of rough or cut and polished diamonds / precious metal jewellery plain, minakari and / or 
studded with / without diamond and / or other stones, with a track record of at least three 
years23  in import / export of diamonds / colored gemstones / diamond and colored gemstones 
studded jewellery / plain gold jewellery and having an average annual turnover of Rs. 3 crores 
or above during the preceding three licensing years (licensing year is from April to March) are 
permitted to transact their business through Diamond Dollar Accounts. 
(ii) They may be allowed to open not more than five Diamond Dollar Accounts with their 
banks. 
(iii) Eligible firms and companies may apply for permission to their AD C ategory – I banks in 
the format prescribed. 
24  
(iv) Conditions mentioned at Para A.6 (iv) a) & b) shall also apply. 
A.6 Exchange Earners’ Foreign Currency Account (EEFC Account) 
(i) A person resident in India may open with, an AD Category – I bank in India, an account in 
foreign currency called the Exchange Earners’ Foreign Currency (EEFC) Account, in terms of 
 
export value and advance remittance received by the exporter towards export of goods or services. Funds in t his account may be 
utilised by the exporter for paying for its imports into India or repatriated into India within a period not exceeding the end of the next 
month from the date of receipt of the funds after adjusting for forward commitments, provided that  the realisation and repatriation 
requirements as specified in Regulation 9 of Foreign Exchange Management (Export of Goods and Services) Regulations, 2015 are  also 
met.’ 
23 Modified vide Notification No. FEMA 10 (R)(6)/2025-RB dated April 29, 2025. Prior to modification, it read as ‘2 years’ 
24 The submission of fortnightly and quarterly reports to RBI on balances of DDA accounts and opening/ closing of DDA accounts has 
since been done away with vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 54 dated March 23, 2016  and FEM (Foreign Currency Accounts by a person 
Resident in India) Regulations, 2015 with effect from January 21, 2016

[Page 13]
25Regulation 4 (D) of Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign Currency Accounts by a 
person Resident in India) Regulations, 2015 dated January 21, 2016. 
(ii) Resident individuals are permitted to include resident close relative(s) as defined in the 
Companies Act 2013 as a joint holder(s) in their EEFC bank accounts on former or survivor 
basis. 
(iii) This account shall be maintained only in the form of non- interest bearing current account. 
No credit facilities, either fund- based or non- fund based,  shall be permitted against the 
security of balances held in EEFC accounts by the AD Category – I banks. 
(iv) All categories of foreign exchange earners are allowed to credit 100% of their foreign 
exchange earnings to their EEFC Accounts subject to the condition that 
a) The sum total of the accruals in the account during a calendar month should be converted 
into Rupees on or before the last day of the succeeding calendar month after adjusting for 
utilization of the balances for approved purposes or forward commitments. 
b) The facility of EEFC scheme is intended to enable exchange earners to save on 
conversion/transaction costs while undertaking forex transactions. This facility is not intended 
to enable exchange earners to maintain assets in foreign currency , as India is still not fully 
convertible on Capital Account. 
(v) The eligible credits represent – 
a) inward remittance received through normal banking channel, other than the remittance 
received pursuant to any undertaking given to the Reserve Bank or which represents foreign 
currency loan raised or investment received from outside India or those received for meeting 
specific obligations by the account holder. 
b) payments received in foreign exchange by a 100 per cent Export Oriented Unit or a unit in 
Export Processing Zone, Software Technology Park or  Electronic Hardware Technology Park 
for supply of goods to similar such unit or to a unit in Domestic Tariff Area and also payments 
received in foreign exchange by a unit in Domestic Tariff Area for supply of goods to a unit in 
Special Economic Zone (SEZ); 
(vi) AD Category – I banks may permit their exporter constituents to extend trade related 
loans/ advances to overseas importers out of their EEFC balances without any ceiling subject 
to compliance with the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management (Borrowing and Lending) 
Regulations, 2018 (Notification No. FEMA.3(R)/2018-RB dated December 17, 2018). 
 
25 Inserted by FEM (Foreign Currency Accounts by a person Resident in India) Regulations, 2015 with effect from January 21, 2016. Prior 
to insertion it read as “Regulation 4 of the Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign Currency Accounts by a person Resident in India) 
Regulations, 2000 notified vide Notification No. FEMA 10/2000-RB dated May 3, 2000”

[Page 14]
(vii) AD Category – I banks may permit exporters to repay packing credit advances whether 
availed in Rupee or in foreign currency from balances in their EEFC account and / or Rupee 
resources to the extent exports have actually taken place. 
(viii) Where a part of the export proceeds  are credited to an EEFC account, the export 
declaration (duplicate) form may be certified as: “Proceeds amounting to …… representing 
….. percent of the export realization credited to the EEFC account maintained by the exporter 
with……” 
A.7 Counter-Trade Arrangement 
Counter trade proposals involving adjustment of value of goods imported into India against 
value of goods exported from India in terms of an arrangement voluntarily entered into 
between the Indian party and the overseas party through an Escrow Account opened in India 
in US Dollar will be considered by the Reserve Bank subject to following conditions: 
(i) All imports and exports under the arrangement should be at international prices in 
conformity with the Foreign Trade Policy a nd Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and 
the Rules and Regulations made there under. 
(ii) No interest will be payable on balances standing to the credit of the Escrow Account but 
the funds temporarily rendered surplus may be held in a short -term deposi t up to a total 
period of three months in a year (i.e., in a block of 12 months) and the banks may pay interest 
at the applicable rate. 
(iii) No fund based/or non-fund based facilities would be permitted against the balances in the 
Escrow Account. 
(iv) Application for permission for opening an Escrow Account may be made by the overseas 
exporter / organization through his / their AD Category – I bank to the Regional Office 
concerned of the Reserve Bank. 
A.8 Exports to neighboring countries by road, rail or river 
The following procedure should be adopted by exporters for filing original copies of EDF 
where exports are made to neighboring countries by road, rail or river transport: 
(i) In case of exports by barges/country craft/road transport, the form should be presented by 
exporter or his agent at the Customs station at the border through which the vessel or vehicle 
has to pass before crossing over to the foreign territory. For this purpose, exporter may 
arrange either to give the form to the person in charge of the vessel or vehicle or forward it to 
his agent at the border for submission to Customs.

[Page 15]
(ii) As regards exports by rail, Customs staff has been posted at certain designated railway 
stations for attending to Customs formalities. They will collect the EDF for goods loaded at 
these stations so that the goods may move straight on to the foreign country without further 
formalities at the border. The list of designated railway stations can be obtained from the 
Railways. For goods loaded at stations other than the designated stations, exporters must 
arrange to present EDF to the Customs Officer at the Border Land Customs Station where 
Customs formalities are completed. 
A.9 Border trade with Myanmar 
In supersession of instructions contained in A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 17 dated October 
16, 2000, barter system of trade at the Indo- M yanmar border has been discontinued and 
replaced with normal trade with effect from December 1, 2015. Accordingly, all trade 
transactions with Myanmar, including those at the Indo- Myanmar border with effect from 
December 1, 2015 shall be settled in any permitted currency in addition to the Asian Clearing 
Union mechanism. 
A.10 Counter –Trade arrangements with Romania 
The Reserve Bank will consider counter trade proposals from Indian exporters with Romania 
involving adjustment of value of exports from India against value of imports made into India in 
terms of a voluntarily entered arrangement between the concerned parties, subject to the 
condition, among others that the Indian exporter should utilize the funds for import of goods 
from Romania into India within six months from the date of credit to Escrow Accounts allowed 
to be opened. 
A.11 Repayment of State credits 
Export of goods and services against repayment of state credits granted by erstwhile USSR 
will continue to be governed by the extant directions issued by the Reserve Bank. 
A.12 Forfaiting 
EXIM Bank and AD Category – I banks have been permitted to undertake forfaiting, for 
financing of export receivables. Remittance of commitment fee / service charges, etc., 
payable by the exporter as approved by the EXIM Bank / AD Category – I banks concerned 
may be done through an AD bank. Such remittances may be made in advance in one lump 
sum or at monthly intervals as approved by the authority concerned. 
A.13 Export factoring on non-recourse basis

[Page 16]
AD banks have been permitted to factor the export receivables on a non- recourse basis, so 
as to enable the exporters to improve their cash flow and meet their working capital 
requirements subject to conditions as under: 
(i) AD banks may take their own business decision to enter into export factoring 
arrangement on non- recourse basis. They should ensure that their client is not over 
financed. Accordingly, they may determine the working capital requirement of their 
clients taking into account the value of the invoices purchased for factoring. The 
invoices purchased should represent genuine trade invoices. 
(ii) In case the export financing has not been done by the Export Factor, the Export Factor 
may pass on the net value to the financing bank/ Institution after realising the export 
proceeds. 
(iii) AD bank, being the Export Factor, should have an arrangement with the Import Factor 
for credit evaluation & collection of payment. 
(iv) Notation should be made on the invoice that importer has to make payment to the 
Import Factor. 
(v) After factoring, the Export Factor may close the export bills and report the same in the 
Export Data Processing and Monitoring System (EDPMS) of the Reserve Bank of 
India. 
(vi)  In case of single factor, not involving Import Factor overseas, the Export Factor may 
obtain credit evaluation details from the correspondent bank abroad. 
(vii) KYC and due diligence on the exporter shall be ensured by the Export Factor. 
A.14 Project Exports and Service Exports 
(i) Export of engineering goods on deferred payment terms and execution of turnkey projects 
and civil construction contracts abroad are collect ively referred to as ‘Project Exports’. Indian 
exporters are required to obtain the approval of the AD Category –  I banks/ Exim Bank at 
post-award stage before undertaking execution of such contracts. Regulations relating to 
‘Project Exports’ and ‘Service Exports’ are laid down in the revised Memorandum of 
Instructions on Project and Service Exports (PEM-July 2014). 
(ii) Accordingly, AD banks / Exim Bank may consider awarding post -award approvals without 
any monetary limit and permit subsequent changes in the terms of post award approval within 
the relevant FEMA guidelines / regulations. Project and service exporters may approach AD 
banks / Exim Bank based on their commercial judgment. The respective AD bank / Exim Bank 
should monitor the projects for which post-award approval has been granted by them.

[Page 17]
(iii) In order to provide greater flexibility to project & service exporters in conducting their 
overseas transactions, facilities have been provided as under: 
a) Inter-Project transfer of machinery - The stipulation regarding recovery of market value (not 
less than book value) of the machinery, etc., from the transferee project has been withdrawn. 
Further, exporters may use the machinery / equipment for performing any other contract 
secured by them in any count ry subject to the satisfaction of the sponsoring AD Category –  I 
bank(s) / Exim Bank and also subject to the reporting requirement and would be monitored by 
the AD Category – I bank(s) / Exim Bank. 
b) Inter-Project transfer of funds - AD Category – I bank(s) / Exim Bank may permit exporters 
to open, maintain and operate one or more foreign currency account/s in a 
currency/currencies of their choice with inter -project transferability of funds in any currency or 
country. The Inter-project transfer of funds will be monitored by the AD Category –  I bank(s) / 
Exim Bank. 
c) Deployment of temporary cash surpluses - Subject to monitoring by the AD Category –  I 
bank(s) / Exim Bank, Project / Service exporters may deploy their temporary cash surpluses, 
generated outside India investments in short -term paper abroad including treasury bills and 
other monetary instruments with a maturity or remaining maturity of one year or less and the 
rating of which should be at least A -1/AAA by Standard & Poor or P -1/-AAA by Moody’s or 
F1/AAA by Fitch IBCA etc., and as deposits with branches / subsidiaries outside India of AD 
Category – I banks in India. 
d) Repatriation of f unds in cas e of On- site Software Contracts -  The requirement of 
repatriation of 30 per cent of con tract value in respect of on- site contracts by software 
exporter company / firm has been dispensed with. They should, however, repatriate the 
profits of on-site contracts after completion of the contracts. 
A.15 Export of goods on lease, hire, etc. 
Prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for export of machinery, equipment, etc., on 
lease, hire basis under agreement with the overseas lessee against collection of lease 
rentals/hire charges and ultimate re- import. Exporters should apply for necessary per mission, 
through an AD Category –  I banks, to the Regional Office concerned of the Reserve Bank, 
giving full particulars of the goods to be exported. 
A.16 Export on elongated credit terms

[Page 18]
Exporters intending to export goods on elongated credit terms may submit their proposals 
giving full particulars through their banks for consideration to the Regional Office concerned of 
the Reserve Bank. 
A.17 Export of Currency 
In terms of Foreign Exchange Management (Export and Import of Currency) Regulations, 
2015 notified vide Notification No. FEMA 6  (R)/2015-RB dated December 29, 2015 , 
permission of Reserve Bank is required for any export of Indian currency except to the extent 
permitted under any general permission granted under the Regulations as under: 
(i) Any person resident in India may take outside India (other than to Nepal and Bhutan) 
currency notes of Government of India and Reserve Bank of India up to an amount not 
exceeding Rs.25,000 (Rupees twenty five thousand only); and 
(ii) Any person resident outside India, not being a citizen of Pakistan and Bangladesh and 
also not a traveler coming from and going to Pakistan or  Bangladesh, and visiting India may 
take outside India currency notes of Government of India and Reserve Bank of India notes up 
to an amount not exceeding Rs. 25,000 (Rupees twenty five thousand only) while exiting only 
through an airport.

[Page 19]
PART-B EDF / SOFTEX Procedure 
B.1 Export of goods through Customs ports 
(i) Customs shall certify the value declared and give running serial number on the two copies 
of Export Declaration Form (EDF), submitted by exporter at Non- Electronic Data Interchange 
(EDI) port.  
(ii) Customs shall retain the origi nal EDF for transmission to the Reserve Bank and return the 
duplicate copy to the exporter. 
(iii) At the time of shipment of goods, exporters shall submit the duplicate copy of the EDF to 
Customs. After examining the goods, Customs shall certify the quanti ty in the form and return 
it to the exporter for submission to AD for negotiation or collection of export bills. 
(iv) Within 21 days from the date of export, exporter shall lodge the duplicate copy together 
with relative shipping documents and an extra copy of the invoice to the AD named in the 
EDF. 
(v) After the documents have been negotiated / sent for collection, the AD shall report the 
transaction through Export Data Processing and Monitoring System (EDPMS) to the Reserve 
Bank and retain the documents at their end. 
(vi) In case of exports made under deferred credit arrangement or to joint ventures abroad 
against equity participation or under rupee credit agreement, the number and date of the 
Reserve Bank approval and/or number and date of the relative RB I circular shall be recorded 
at the appropriate place on the EDF. 
(vii) Where duplicate copy of EDF is misplaced or lost, AD may accept copy of duplicate EDF 
duly certified by Customs. 
B.2 Export of goods/ software done through EDI ports 
(i) The shipping bill shall be submitted in duplicate to the authority concerned (Commissioner 
of Customs or the SEZ, if the export is made through it). 
(ii) After verifying and authenticating, the authority concerned shall hand over to the exporter, 
one copy of the shipping bill marked ‘Exchange Control (EC) Copy’ for being submitted to the 
AD bank within 21 days from the date of export for collection/negotiation of shipping 
documents. However, in cases where EC copy of shipping bill is not printed in terms of 
CBEC’s Circular No. 55/2016 -Customs dated November 23, 2016 and data of shipping bill is 
integrated with EDPMS, requirement of submission of EC copy of shipping bill with the AD 
bank would not be there.

[Page 20]
(iii) The manner of disposal of EC copy of Shipping Bill shall be the same as that for EDF. The 
duplicate copy of the form together with a copy of invoice etc. shall be retained by ADs and 
may not be submitted to the Reserve Bank. The question of disposal of EC copy  of shipping 
bill will, however, not arise where EC copy of shipping bill is not printed in terms of CBEC’s 
Circular No.55/2016-Customs dated November 23, 2016 and data of shipping bill is integrated 
with EDPMS.  
Note: - In cases where ECGC/private insuran ce companies regulated by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
(IRDA) initially settles the claims of exporters and the export proceeds are subsequently received from the buyer/buyer’s 
country, the share of exporters in the amount so received is disbursed through the AD which had handled the shipping 
documents post receipt of certificate issued by ECGC/ private insurance companies. The certificate will indicate the number 
of declaration form, name of the exporter, name of the AD, date of negotiati on, bill number, invoice value and the amount 
actually received by ECGC/private insurance company. 
B.3 Export of goods through Post  
Postal Authorities shall allow export of goods by post only if the original copy of the EDF has 
been countersigned by an AD . Therefore, EDF which involve sending goods by post should 
be first presented by the exporter to an AD for countersignature. The procedure is as under: 
(i) AD shall countersign EDF after ensuring that the parcel has been addressed to their 
branch or correspondent bank in the country of import and return the original copy to the 
exporter, who shall then submit the EDF to the post office with the parcel. 
(ii) The duplicate copy of EDF shall be retained by the AD to whom the exporter shall submit 
relevant documents together with an extra copy of invoice for negotiation/collection, within the 
prescribed period of 21 days. 
(iii) The concerned overseas branch or correspondent shall be instructed to deliver the parcel 
to consignee against payment or acceptance of relative bill. 
(iv) AD may, however, countersign EDF covering parcels addressed direct to the consignees, 
provided:  
(a) An irrevocable letter of credit for the full value of export has been opened in favor of 
the exporter and has been advised through the AD concerned.  
          Or  
(b) The full value of the shipment has been received in advance by the exporter through 
an AD.  
           Or  
(c) The AD is satisfied, on the basis of the standing and track record of the exporter and  
the arrangements made for realization of the export proceeds.

[Page 21]
In such cases, particulars of advance payment/letter of credit / AD’s certification of standing, 
etc., of the exporter should be furnished on the form under proper authentication.  
(v) Any alteration in the name and address of consignee on the EDF form should also be 
authenticated by AD under its stamp and signature. 
B.4 Mid-sea trans-shipment of catch by deep sea fishing vessels 
(i) Since deep sea fishing involves continuous sailing outside the territorial limit, trans -
shipment of catches takes place in the high sea leading to procedural constraints in regulatory 
reporting requirement viz. the Declaration of Export in terms of Notification 
No.FEMA.23(R)/2015-RB dated January 12, 2016. 
(ii) For mid -sea trans -shipment of catches by Indian owned vessels, as per the norms 
prescribed by the Ministry of agriculture, Government of India, the EDF declaration procedure 
in this regard has been rationalised in consultation with the Government of India as outlined 
below should be followed by the exporter in conformity with Regulation 3 of Notification 
No.FEMA.23 (R)/2015-RB dated January 12, 2016. 
a) The exporters may submit the EDF, duly signed by the Master of the vessel in lieu of 
Custom certification, indicating the composition of the catch, quantity, export value, date of 
shipment (date of transfer of catch ), etc duly supported by a certificate from an international 
cargo surveyor. 
b) Bill of Lading / receipt of t rans-shipment issued by the carrier vessel should include the 
EDF Number. 
c) The prescribed period of realization and repatriation should be reckoned with reference t o 
the date of transfer of catch as certified by the Master of the vessel or the date of the invoice, 
whichever is earlier. 
d) The EDF, both original and duplicate, should indicate the number and date of Letter of 
Permit issued by Ministry of Agriculture for operation of the vessel. 
e) The exporter will complete the EDF in duplicate and both the copies may be submitted to 
the Customs at the registered port of the vessel or any other port as approved by Ministry of 
Agriculture. EDF (Original) will be retained by the Customs for capturing of data in Customs’ 
Electronic Data Interchange. 
f) Customs will give their running serial number on both the copies of EDF and will return the 
duplicate copy to the exporter as the value certification of the exp ort has already been done 
as mentioned above.

[Page 22]
g) Rules, Regulations and Directions issued in respect of the procedure for submission of the 
EDF by exporter to the AD Category -I banks, and the disposal of these forms by these banks 
will be same as applicable to the other exporters. 
B.5 SOFTEX Forms 
(i) All software exporters can now file single as well as bulk SOFTEX form in the form of a 
statement in excel format to the competent authority for certification. Since the SOFTEX data 
from STPI/SEZ are being transmitted in electronic format to RBI, the exporters now have to 
submit the SOFTEX form in duplicate as per the revised procedure. STPI/SEZ will retain one 
copy and handover duplicate copy to exporters after due certification. As hitherto, the 
exporters hav e to provide information about all the invoices including the ones lesser than 
US$25000, in the bulk statement in excel format. 
(ii) A common “SOFTEX Form” has been devised to declare single as well as bulk software 
exports. 
(iii) Reserve Bank of India has  extended the facility for online generation of the EDF Form 
Number and the SOFTEX Form Number (Single as well as Bulk for use in off -site software 
exports). The facility of manual allotment of single as well bulk SOFTEX form number by 
Regional Offices of RBI has been dispensed with accordingly. 
(iv) Invoicing of software exports  
a) For long duration contracts involving series of transmissions, the exporters should bill their 
overseas clients periodically, i.e., at least once a month or on reaching the ‘milestone’ as 
provided in the contract entered into with the overseas client an d the last invoice / bill should 
be raised not later than 15 days from the date of completion of the contract. It would be in 
order for the exporters to submit a combined SOFTEX form for all the invoices raised on a 
particular overseas client, including advance remittances received in a month.  
b) Contracts involving only ‘one- shot operation’, the invoice/bill should be raised within 15 
days from the date of transmission.  
c) The exporter should submit declaration in Form SOFTEX in quadruplicate in respect of 
export of computer software and audio / video / television software to the designated official 
concerned of the Government of India at STPI / EPZ /FTZ /SEZ for valuation / certification not 
later than 30 days from the date of invoice / the date of last invoice raised in a month, as 
indicated above. The designated officials may also certify the SOFTEX Forms of EOUs, which 
are registered with them.

[Page 23]
d) The invoices raised on overseas clients as at (a) to (c) above will be subject to valuation of 
export declared on SOFTEX form by the designated official concerned of the Government of 
India and consequent amendment made in the invoice value, if necessary. 
B.6 Citing of specific identification numbers 
In all applications / correspondence with the Reserve Bank, the specific identification number 
as available on the EDF and SOFTEX forms should invariably be cited. 
B.7 Export of Services 
it is clarified that, in respect of export of services to which none of the Forms specified in 
these Regulations apply , the exporter may export such services without furnishing any 
declaration, but shall be liable to realise the amount of foreign exchange which becomes due 
or accrues on account of such export, and to repatriate the same to India in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act, and these Regulations, as also other rules and regulations made 
under the Act. 
B.8 Third party export proceeds 
Realization of export proceeds in respect of export of goods / software from third party should 
be duly declared by the exporter in the appropriate declaration form. 
B.9 Random verification 
In all the above procedures, AD Category – I bank should ensure, by random check of the 
relevant duplicate forms by their internal / concurrent auditors, that non- realization or short 
realization allowed, if any, is within the powers delegated to them or has been duly approved 
by the Reserve Bank, wherever necessary. 
B.10 Short Shipments and Shut out Shipments 
(i) When part of a shipment covered by an EDF already filed with Customs is short -shipped, 
the exporter must give notice of short -shipment to the Customs in the form and manner 
prescribed. In case of delay in obtaining certified short -shipment notice from the Customs, the 
exporter should give an undertaking to the AD banks to the effect that he has filed the short -
shipment notice with the Customs and that he will furnish it as soon as it is obtained. 
(ii) Where a shipment has been entirely shut out and there is delay in making arrangements to 
re-ship, the exporter will give notice in duplicate to the Customs in the form and manner 
prescribed, attaching thereto the unused duplicate copy of EDF and the shipping bill. The 
Customs will verify that the shipment was actually shut out, certify the copy of the notice as

[Page 24]
correct and forward it to the Reserve Bank together with unused duplicate copy of the EDF. In 
this case, the original EDF received earlier from Customs will be cancelled. If the shipment is 
made subsequently, a fresh set of EDF should be completed. 
B.11 Consolidation of air cargo/sea cargo 
(i) Consolidation of air cargo 
a) Where air cargo is shipped under consolidation, the airline company’s Master Airway Bill 
will be issued to the Consolidating Cargo Agent. The Cargo agent in turn will issue his own 
House Airway Bills (HAWBs) to individual shippers. 
b) AD Category – I banks may negotiate HAWBs only if the relative letter of credit specifically 
provides for negotiation of these documents in lieu of Airway Bills issued by the airline 
company. 
(ii) Consolidation of sea cargo 
a) A D Category – I banks may accept Forwarder’s Cargo Receipts (FCR) issued by IATA 
approved agents, in lieu of bills of lading, for negotiation / collection of shipping documents, in 
respect of export transactions backed by letters of credit, if the relative letter of credit 
specifically provides for negotiation of this document, in lieu of bill of lading even if the relative 
sale contract with the overseas buyer does not provide for acceptance of FCR as a shipping 
document, in lieu of bill of lading 
b) Further, Authorized Dealers may, at their discretion, also accept FCR issued by Shipping 
companies of repute/IATA approved agents (in lieu of bill of lading), for 
purchase/discount/collection of shipping documents even in cases, where export transactions 
are not backed by letters of credit, provided their 'relative sale contract' with overseas buyer 
provides for acceptance of FCR as a shipping document in lieu of bill of lading. However, the 
acceptance of such FCR for purchase/discount would purely be the credit decision of the 
bank concerned who, among others, should satisfy itself about the bona fides of the 
transaction and the track record of the overseas buyer and the Indian supplier since FCRs are 
not negotiable documents. It would be advisable for the exporters to ensure due diligence on 
the overseas buyer, in such cases. 
B.12 Exemption from Declaration 
The requirement of declaration of export of goods and software in the prescribed form will not 
apply to the cases indicated in Regulation 4 of 26Notification No.FEMA.23 (R)/2015-RB dated 
 
26 FEM (Export of Goods and Services) Regulations, 2000 was repealed and replaced by FEM (Export of Goods and Services) Regulati ons, 
2015 with effect from January 12, 2016

[Page 25]
January 12, 2016 . The exporters shall, however, be liable to reali se and repatriate export 
proceeds as per FEMA Regulations. 
PART-C Obligations of Authorised Dealers 
C.1 Grant of EDF waiver 
27AD Category – I banks may consider requests for grant of EDF waiver from exporters  as 
under: 
Status holders shall be entitled to export freely exportable items (excluding Gems and 
Jewellery, Articles of Gold and precious metals) on free of cost basis for export promotion 
subject to an annual limit as below: 
a) Annual limit of 2% of average annual export realization during preceding three licensing 
years for all exporters (excluding the exporters of following sectors -(1) Gems and 
Jewellery Sector, (2) Articles of Gold and precious metals sector). 
b) Annual limit of Rupees One Crore or 2% of average annual export realization during 
preceding three licensing years, whichever is lower. (for exporters of the following sectors -
(1) Gems and Jewellery Sector, (2) Articles of Gold and precious metals sector). 
c) In case of supplies of pharmaceutical products, vaccines and lifesaving drugs to health 
programmes of international agencies such as UN, WHO -PAHO and Government health 
programmes, the annual limit shall be up to 8% of the average annual export realisation 
during preceding three licensing years. 
Such free of cost supplies shall not be entitled to Duty Drawback or any other export incentive 
under any export promotion scheme. 
Exports of goods not involving any foreign exchange transaction directly or indirectly requires 
the waiver of EDF procedure from the Reserve Bank. 
C.2 Receipt of advance against exports 
(1) In terms of Regulation 15  of Notification No. FEMA 23  (R)/2015-RB dated January 12, 
2016, where an exporter receives advance payment (with or without interest), from a buyer 
 
27 Inserted vide Gazette Notification No. 28.2015-2020 dated August 27, 2018. Prior to deletion it read as: ” AD Category – I banks may 
consider requests for grant of EDF waiver from exporters as under: Status holders shall be entitled to export freely exportable items 
(excluding Gems and Jewellery, Articles of Gold and precious metals) on free of cost basis for export promotion subject to an  annual 
limit of Rupees One Crore or 2% of average annual export realisation during preceding three licensing year s, whichever is lower. For 
export of pharma products by pharmaceutical companies, the annual limit would be 2% of average annual export realisation during 
preceding three licensing years. In case of supplies of pharmaceutical products, vaccines and lifesaving drugs to health programmes of 
international agencies such as UN, WHO -PAHO and Government health programmes, the annual limit shall be upto 8% of the average 
annual export realisation during preceding three licensing years. Such free of cost supplies shall not be entitled to Duty Drawback or any 
other export incentive under any export promotion scheme. ” which was inserted Gazette Notification No 23/2015-2020 dated August  
23, 2017.

[Page 26]
outside India, the exporter shall be under an obligation to ensure that the shipment of goods 
is made within three years 28 from the date of receipt of advance payment; the rate of interest, 
if any, payable on the advance payment does not exceed London Inter -Bank Offered Rate 
(LIBOR)/ 29any other widely accepted / Alternative reference rate + 100 basis points; and the 
documents covering the shipment are routed through the AD Category – I bank through 
whom the advance payment is received. 
Provided that in the event of the exporter’s inability to make the shipment, partly or fully, 
within three years 28 from the date of receipt of advance payment, no remittance towards 
refund of unutilized portion of advance payment or towards payment of interest, shall be 
made after the expiry of the said period of three years 28, without the prior approval of the 
Reserve Bank. 
30EDPMS will capture the details of advance remittances received for exports in EDPMS. 
Henceforth, AD Category – I banks will have to report all the inward remittances including 
advance as well as old outstanding inward remittances received for export of goods/ software 
to EDPMS.  Further, AD Category – I banks need to report the electronic FIRC to EDPMS 
wherever such FIRCs are issued against inward remittances. 
The quarterly return being submitted for delay in utilization of advances received for export 
stands discontinued. 
(2) AD Category - I banks can also allow exporters having a minimum of three years’ 
satisfactory track record to receive long term export advance up to a maximum tenor of 10 
years to be utilized for execution of long term supply contracts for export of goods subject to 
the conditions as under: 
(i) Firm irrevocable supply orders and contracts should be in place. The cont ract with the 
overseas party/ buyer should be vetted and the same shall clearly specify the nature, amount 
and delivery timelines of the products over the years and penalty in case of non- performance 
or contract cancellation. Product pricing should be in consonance with prevailing international 
prices. 
(ii) Company should have capacity, systems and processes in place to ensure that the orders 
over the duration of the said tenure can actually be executed. 
 
28 Substituted vide Notification No. FEMA 23 (R)(7)/2025-RB dated November 13, 2025. Prior to substitution, it read as: “one year” 
29 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.13 dated September 28, 2021 
30 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 74 dated May 26, 2016

[Page 27]
(iii) The facility is to be provided only to those entities, which have not come under the 
adverse notice of Enforcement Directorate or any such regulatory agency or have not been 
caution listed. 
(iv) Such advances should be adjusted through future exports. 
(v) The rate of interest payable, if any, should no t exceed LlBOR/ 29any other widely accepted 
/ Alternative reference rate plus 200 basis points. 
(vi) The documents should be routed through one Authorized Dealer bank only. 
(vii) Authorised Dealer bank should ensure compliance with AML / KYC guidelines 
(viii) Such export advances shall not be permitted to be used to liquidate Rupee loans 
classified as NPA. 
(ix) Double financing for working capital for execution of export orders should be avoided. 
(x) Receipt of such advance of USD 100 million or more should be immediately reported to 
the Trade Division, Foreign Exchange Department, Reserve Bank of India, Central Office, 
Mumbai. 
(xi) In case Authorized Dealer banks are required to issue bank guarantee (BG) / Stand by 
Letter of Credit (SBLC) for export performance, then the issuance should be rigorously 
evaluated as any other credit proposal keeping in view, among others, prudential 
requirements based on board approved policy. 
a) BG / SBLC may be issued for a term not exceeding two years at a time and further rollover 
of not more than two years at a time may be allowed subject to satisfaction with relative 
export performance as per the contract. 
b) BG / SBLC should cover only the advance on reducing balance basis. 
c) BG / SBLC issued from India in favor of overseas buyer should not be discounted by the 
overseas branch / subsidiary of bank in India. 
Note: AD Category – I banks may also be guided by the Master Circular on Guarantees and Co-acceptances issued by 
Department of Banking Regulation. 
(xii) AD Category – I banks may allow the purchase of foreign exchange from the market for 
refunding advance payment credited to EEFC account only after utilizing the entire balances 
held in the exporter’s EEFC accounts maintained at different branches/banks. 
(3) AD Category - I banks may allow exporters to receive advance payment for export of 
goods which would take more than three years 31 to manufacture and ship and where the 
 
31 Substituted vide Notification No. FEMA 23 (R)(7)/2025-RB dated November 13, 2025. Prior to substitution, it read as: “one year”

[Page 28]
‘export agreement’ provides for shipment of goods extending beyond the period of three 
years31 from the date of receipt of advance payment subject to the following conditions:- 
(i) The KYC and due diligence exercise has been done by the AD Category –  I bank for the 
overseas buyer; 
(ii) Compliance with the Anti-Money Laundering standards has been ensured; 
(iii) The AD Category -I bank should ensure that export advance received by the exporter 
should be utilized to execute export and not for any other purpose i.e., the transaction is a 
bonafide transaction; 
(iv) Progress payment, if any, should be received directly from the overseas buyer strictly in 
terms of the contract; 
(v) The rate of interest, if any, payable on the advance payment shall not exceed London 
Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) / 29any other widely accepted / Alternative reference rate + 
100 basis points; 
(vi) There should be no instance of refund exceeding 10% of the advance payment received 
in the last three years; 
(vii) The documents covering the shipment should be routed through the same authorised 
dealer bank; and 
(viii) In the event of the exporter's inability to make the shipment, partly or fully, no remittance 
towards refund of unutilized portion of advance payment or towards payment of inter est 
should be made without the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. 
(4) (i) As it has been observed that there is substantial increase in the number and amount of 
advances received for exports remaining outstanding beyond the stipulated period on account 
of non-performance of such exports (shipments in case of export of goods), AD Category – I 
banks are advised to efficiently follow up with the concerned exporters in order to ensure that 
export performance (shipments in case of export of goods) are completed within the 
stipulated time period. 
(ii) It is further reiterated that AD category – I banks should exercise proper due diligence and 
ensure compliance with KYC and AML guidelines so that only bonafide export advances flow 
into India. Doubtful cases as also instances of chronic defaulters may be referred to 
Directorate of Enforcement (DoE) for further investigation. A quarterly statement indicating 
details of such cases may be forwarded to the concerned Regional Offices of RBI within 21 
days from the end of each quarter.

[Page 29]
C.3 EDF Approval for Trade Fair/Exhibitions abroad 
Firms / Companies and other organizations participating in Trade Fair/Exhibition abroad can 
take/export goods for exhibition and sale outside India without the prior approval of the 
Reserve Bank. Unsold exhibit items may be sold outside the exhibition/trade fair in the same 
country or in a third country. Such sales at discounted value are also permissible. It would 
also be permissible to 'gift’ unsold goods up to the value of USD 5000 per exporter, per 
exhibition/trade fair. AD Category –  I banks may approve EDF of export items for display or 
display-cum-sale in trade fairs/exhibitions outside India subject to the following: 
(i) The exporter shall produce relative Bill of Entry within one month of re- import into India of 
the unsold items. 
(ii) The exporter shall report to the AD Category –  I banks the method of disposal of all items 
exported, as well as the repatriation of proceeds to India. 
(iii) Such transactions approved by the AD Category – I banks will be subject to 100 per cent 
audit by their internal inspectors/auditors. 
C.4 EDF approval for export of goods for re-imports 
(i) AD Category –  I banks may consider request from exporters for granting EDF approval in 
cases where goods are being exported for re- import after repairs / maintenance / testing / 
calibration, etc., subject to the condition that the exporter shall produce relative Bill of Entry 
within one month of re-import of the exported item from India. 
(ii) Where the goods b eing exported for testing are destroyed during testing, AD Category –  I 
banks may obtain a certificate issued by the testing agency that the goods have been 
destroyed during testing, in lieu of Bill of Entry for import. 
C.5 Re -export of unsold rough diamonds from Special Notified Zone of Customs 
without Export Declaration Form (EDF) formality 
(i) In order to facilitate re- export of unsold rough diamonds imported on free of cost basis at 
SNZ, it is clarified that the unsold rough diamonds, when re- exported from the SNZ (being an 
area within the Customs) without entering the Domestic Tariff Area (DTA), do not require any 
EDF formality. 
(ii) Entry of consignment containing different lots of rough diamonds into the SNZ should be 
accompanied by a declaration of notional value by way of an invoice and a packing list 
indicating the free cost nature of the consignment. Under no circumstance, entry of such 
rough diamonds is permitted into DTA.

[Page 30]
32(iii) For the lot/ lots cleared at the center/s which are duly notified u nder Customs Act, 
1962/specified by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs, Department of Revenue, 
Ministry of Finance, Government of India for the above purpose, Bill of Entry shall be filed by 
the buyer. AD bank may permit such import payments after being satisfied with the bona-fides 
of the transaction. Further, AD bank shall also maintain a record of such transactions. 
C.6 Foreign Currency Accounts of Overseas branches/office, representatives of Indian 
entities 
(1) (i) At the time of setting up of the office, AD Category – I banks may allow remittances 
towards initial expenses up to fifteen per cent of the average annual sales/income or turnover 
during the last two financial years or up to twenty -five per cent of the net worth, whichev er is 
higher. 
(ii) For recurring expenses, remittances up to ten per cent of the average annual sales/income 
or turnover during the last two financial years may be sent for the purpose of normal business 
operations of the office (trading/non- trading)/branch or representative office outside India 
subject to the following terms and conditions: 
a) The overseas branch/office has been set up or representative is posted overseas for 
conducting normal business activities of the Indian entity; 
b) The overseas branch/office/representative shall not enter into any contract or agreement in 
contravention of the Act, Rules or Regulations made there under; 
c) The overseas office (trading / non- trading) / branch / representative should not create any 
financial liabilities, contingent or otherwise, for the head office in India and also not invest 
surplus funds abroad without prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Any funds rendered surplus 
should be repatriated to India. 
(iii) The details of bank accounts opened in the overseas country should be promptly reported 
to the AD Bank. 
(iv) AD Category – I banks may also allow remittances by a company incorporated in India 
having overseas offices, within the above limits for initial and recurring expenses, to acquire 
immovable property outside India for its business and for residential purpose of its staff. 
(v) The overseas  office / branch of software exporter company/firm may repatriate to India 
100 per cent of the contract value of each ‘off-site’ contract. 
(vi) In case of companies taking up ‘on site’ contracts, they should repatriate the profits of 
such ‘on site’ contracts after the completion of the said contracts. 
 
32 Inserted vide AP(DIR Series) Circular No.10 dated November 22, 2019

[Page 31]
(vii) An audited yearly statement showing receipts under ‘off -site’ and ‘on- site’ contracts 
undertaken by the overseas office, expenses and repatriation thereon may be sent to the AD 
Category – I banks. 
(2)  I n terms of A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No 03 dated April 23, 2025 , AD banks may allow 
remittances by the Indian exporter for initial as well as recurring expenses for setup and 
continuing business operations of its offices without any pre- conditions, after verifying the 
reasonableness of the same. 
C.7 Delay in submission of shipping documents by exporters 
In cases where exporters’ present documents pertaining to exports after the prescribed period 
of 21 days from date of export, AD Category – I banks may handle them without prior 
approval of the Reserve Bank, provided they are satisfied with the reasons for the delay. 
C.8 Return of documents to exporters 
The duplicate copies of EDF and shipping documents, once submitted to the AD Category – I 
banks for negotiation, collection, etc., should not ordinarily be returned to exporters, except 
for rectification of errors and resubmission. 
C.9 Landlocked countries 
AD Category – I banks may deliver one negotiable copy of the Bill of Lading to the Master of 
the carrying vessel or trade representative for exports to certain landlocked countries if the 
shipment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit and the documents conform strictly  to 
the terms of the Letter of Credit which, inter alia, provides for such delivery. 
C.10 Direct dispatch of documents by the exporter 
(i) AD Category – I banks should normally dispatch shipping documents to their overseas 
branches/correspondents expeditiously. However, they may dispatch shipping documents 
direct to the consignees or their agents resident in the country of final destination of goods in 
cases where: 
a) Advance payment or an irrevocable letter of credit has been received for the full value of 
the export shipment and the underlying sale contract/letter of credit provides for dispatch of 
documents direct to the consignee or his agent resident in the country of final destination of 
goods. 
b) The AD Category – I banks may also accede to the request of the exporter provided the 
exporter is a regular customer and the AD Category – I bank is satisfied, on the basis of 
standing and track record of the exporter and arrangements have been made for realization of 
export proceeds.

[Page 32]
(ii) AD Category – I banks may also permit 'Status Holder Exporters’ (as defined in the 
Foreign Trade Policy), and units in Special Economic Zones (SEZ) to dispatch the export 
documents to the consignees outside India subject to the terms and conditions that: 
a) The export proceeds are repatriated through the AD banks named in the EDF. 
b) The duplicate copy of the EDF is submitted to the AD banks for monitoring purposes, by 
the exporters within 21 days from the date of shipment of export. 
33(iii) AD Category – I banks may regularize cases of dispatch of shipping documents by the 
exporter direct to the consignee or his agent resident in the country of the final destination of 
goods, irrespective of the value of export shipment, subject to the following conditions: 
a) The export proceeds have been reali sed in full except for the amount written off, if any, in 
accordance with the extant provisions for write off. 
b) The exporter is a regular customer of AD Category – I bank for a period of at least six 
months. 
c) The exporter’s account with the AD Category – I bank is fully compliant with the Reserve 
Bank’s extant KYC / AML guidelines. 
d) The AD Category – I bank is satisfied about the bonafides of the transaction. 
In case of doubt, the AD Category – I bank may consider filing Suspicious Transaction Report 
(STR) with FIU_IND (Financial Intelligence Unit in India). 
C.11 Part Drawings/ Undrawn Balances 
(i) In certain lines of export trade, it is the practice to leave a small part of the invoice value 
undrawn for payment after adjustment due to differences in weight, quality, etc., to be 
ascertained after arrival and inspection, weighment or analysis of the goods. In such cases, 
AD Category – I banks may negotiate the bills, provided: 
a) The amount of undrawn balance is considered normal in the particular line of export trade, 
subject to a maximum of 10 per cent of the full export value. 
b) An undertaking is obtained from the exporter on the duplicate of EDF forms that he will 
surrender/account for the balance proceeds of the shipment within the period prescribed for 
realization. 
(ii) In cases where the exporter has not been able to arrange for repatriation of the undrawn 
balance in spite of best efforts, AD Category – I banks, on being satisfied with the bona fides 
 
33 Inserted vide AP(DIR Series) Circular No.08 dated December 04, 2020

[Page 33]
of the case, should ensure that the exporter has reali sed at least the value for which the bill 
was initially drawn (excluding undrawn balances) or 90 per cent of the value declared on EDF 
form, whichever is more and a period of one year has elapsed from the date of shipment. 
C.12 Consignment Exports 
(i) When goods have been exported on consignment basis, the AD Category -I bank, while 
forwarding shipping documents to his overseas branch/ correspondent, should instruct the 
latter to deliv er them only against trust receipt/undertaking to deliver sale proceeds by a 
specified date within the period prescribed for realization of proceeds of the export. This 
procedure should be followed even if, according to the practice in certain trades, a bi ll for part 
of the estimated value is drawn in advance against the exports. 
(ii) The agents/consignees may deduct from sale proceeds of the goods expenses normally 
incurred towards receipt, storage and sale of the goods, such as landing charges, warehouse 
rent, handling charges, etc. and remit the net proceeds to the exporter. 
(iii) The account sales received from the Agent/Consignee should be verified by the AD 
Category – I banks. Deductions in Account Sales should be supported by bills/receipts in 
original except in case of petty items like postage/cable charges, stamp duty, etc. 
(iv) In case the goods are exported on consignment basis, freight and marine insurance must 
be arranged in India. 
(v) AD Category –  I banks may allow the exporters to abandon the books, which remain 
unsold at the expiry of the period of the sale contract. Accordingly, the exporters may show 
the value of the unsold books as deduction from the export proceeds in the Account Sales. 
C.13 Opening / hiring of warehouses abroad 
(1) AD Category – I banks may consider the applications received from exporters and grant 
permission for opening / hiring warehouses abroad subject to the following conditions: 
(i) Applicant’s export outstanding does not exceed 5 per cent of exports made during t he 
previous financial year. 
(ii) Applicant has a minimum export turnover of USD 100,000/- during the last financial year. 
(iii) Period of realization should be as applicable. 
(iv) All transactions should be routed through the designated branch of the AD Banks. 
(v) The above permission may be granted to the exporters initially for a period of one year 
and renewal may be considered subject to the applicant satisfying the requirement above.

[Page 34]
(vi) AD Category – I banks granting such permission/approvals should maintain a proper 
record of the approvals granted. 
(2) In terms of A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No 03 dated April 23, 2025 , AD banks may allow 
Opening/hiring of a warehouse in ‘Bharat Mart’ by an Indian exporter with a valid Importer 
Exporter Code, without any pre-conditions, after verifying the reasonableness of the same. 
C.14 Export Bills Register 
AD Category – I banks should maintain Export Bills Register, in physical or electronic form 
aligned with Export Data Processing and Monitoring System (EDPMS). The bill number 
should be given to all type of export transactions on a financial year basis (i.e. April to March) 
and same should be reported in EDPMS. 
C.15 Follow-up of overdue bills 
(i) AD Category – I banks should closely watch realization of bills and in cases where bills 
remain outstanding, beyond the due date for payment from the date of export, the matter 
should be promptly taken up with the concerned exporter. If the exporter fails to arrange for 
delivery of the proceeds within the stipulated period or seek extension of time beyond the 
stipulated period, the matter should be reported to the Regional Office concerned of the 
Reserve Bank stating, where possible, the reason for the delay in realizing the proceeds. 
(ii) The duplicate copies of EDF/SOFTEX Forms should, continue to be held by AD Category 
– I banks until the full proceeds are realised, except in case of undrawn balances. 
(iii) AD Category – I banks should follow up export outstanding with exporters systematically 
and vigorously so that action against defaulting exporters does not get delayed. Any laxity in 
the follow up of realization of export proceeds by AD Category – I banks w ill be viewed 
seriously by the Reserve Bank, leading to the invocation of the penal provision under FEMA, 
1999. 
(iv) 34With operationalisation of EDPMS on March 01, 2014, realisation of all export 
transaction for shipping documents after February 28, 2014 should be reported in EDPMS. 
C.16 Reduction in invoice value on account of prepayment of usance bills 
Occasionally, exporters may approach AD Category – I banks for reduction in invoice value 
on account of cash discount to overseas buyers for prepayment of the usance bills. AD 
Category – I banks may allow cash discount to the extent of amount of proportionate interest 
on the unexpired period of usance, calculated at the rate of interest stipulated in the export 
 
34 Inserted by AP (Dir) Series Circular 74 dated May 26, 2016 , to be effected from June 15, 2016. Prior to insertion it read as: “With operationalis ation of 
EDPMS on March 01, 2014, realiz ation of all export transaction for shipping documents after February 28, 2014 should be reported in EDPMS and old 
outstanding shipping bills prior to March 01, 2014 should continue to be reported in XOS till completion of the cycle.”

[Page 35]
contract or at the prime rate/LIBOR / 29any other widely accepted / Alternative reference rate  
of the currency of invoice where rate of interest is not stipulated in the contract. 
C.17 Reduction in invoice value in other cases 
(i) If, after a bill has been negotiated or sent for collection, its amount is to be reduced for any 
reason, AD Category – I banks may approve such reduction, if satisfied about genuineness of 
the request, provided: 
a) The reduction does not exceed 25 per cent of invoice value: 
b) It does not relate to export of commodities subject to floor price stipulations 
c) The exporter is not on the exporters’ caution list of the Reserve Bank,  
d) The exporter is advised to surrender proportionate export incentives availed of, if any. 
(ii) In the case of exporters who have been in the export business for more than three years, 
reduction in invoice value may be allowed, without any percentage ceiling, subject to the 
above conditions as also subject to their track record being satisfactory, i.e., the export 
outstanding do not exceed 5 per  cent of the average annual export realization during the 
preceding three financial years. 
(iii) For the purpose of reckoning the percentage of export bills outstanding to the average 
export realizations during the preceding three financial years, outstanding of exports made to 
countries facing externalization problems may be ignored provided the payments have been 
made by the buyers in the local currency. 
C.18 Change of buyer/consignee 
Prior approval of the Reserve Bank is not required if, after goods have been shipped, they are 
to be transferred to a buyer other than the original buyer in the event of default by the latter, 
provided the reduction in value, if any, involved does not exceed 25 per cent of the invoice 
value and the realization of export proceeds is not delayed beyond the period of 9  months 
from the date of export.  Where the reduction in value exceeds 25%, all other relevant 
conditions stipulated in paragraph C.17 should also be satisfied. 
C.19 Export of goods by Special Economic Zones (SEZs) 
(i) Units in SEZs are permitted to undertake job work abroad and export goods from that 
country itself subject to the conditions that: 
a) Processing / manufacturing charges are suitably loaded in the export price and are borne 
by the ultimate buyer.

[Page 36]
b) The exporter has made satisfactory arrangements for realization of full export proceeds 
subject to the usual EDF procedure. 
(ii) AD Category – I banks may permit units in DTAs to purchase foreign exchange for making 
payment for goods supplied to them by units in SEZs. Authorised Dealer Banks are permitted 
to sell foreign exchange to a unit in the DTA for making payment in foreign exchange to a unit 
in the SEZ for the services rendered by it (i.e. a unit in SEZ) to a DTA unit. It must be ensured 
that in the Letter of Approval (LoA) issued to the SEZ unit by the Development 
Commissioner(DC) of the SEZ, the provisions pertaining to the goods / ser vices supplied by 
the SEZ unit to the DTA unit and for payment in foreign exchange for the same should be 
mentioned. 
C.20 Extension of time 
(i) The Reserve Bank of India has permitted the AD Category – I banks to extend the period 
of realization of export proceeds beyond stipulated period of realization from the date of 
export, up to a period of six months, at a time, irrespective of the invoice value of the export 
subject to the following conditions: 
a) The export transactions covered by the invoices are not under investigation by Directorate 
of Enforcement / Central Bureau of Investigation or other investigating agencies, 
b) The AD Category – I bank is satisfied that the exporter has not been able to reali se export 
proceeds for reasons beyond his control, 
c) The exporter submits a declaration that the export proceeds will be realise d during the 
extended period, 
d) While considering extension beyond one year from the date of export, the total outstanding 
of the exporter does not exceed USD one million or 10 per cent of the average export 
realizations during the preceding three financial years, whichever is higher. 
35 
36e) In cases where the exporter has filed suits abroad against the buyer, extension may be 
granted irrespective of the amount involved / outstanding. 
(ii)  Cases which are not covered by the above instructions would require prior approval from 
the concerned Regional Office of the Reserve Bank. 
 
35 Omitted by AP (DIR) Series Circular 74 dated May 26, 2016  with effect from June 15, 2016. Prior to deletion it read as: “All the export 
bills outstanding beyond six months from the dat e of export may be reported in XOS statement. However, where extension of time has 
been granted by the AD Category – I banks, the date up to which extension has been granted may be indicated in the ‘Remarks’ column.” 
36 The existing sub-para (f) has been re-numbered as (e) on the deletion of the existing sub-para (e) by AP (DIR) Series Circular No. 74 
dated May 26, 2016

[Page 37]
(iii) Reporting should be done in EDPMS. 
C.21 Shipments lost in transit 
(i) When shipments from India for which payment has not been received either by negotiation 
of bills under letters of credit or otherwise are lost in transit, the AD Category – I banks must 
ensure that insurance claim is made as soon as the loss is known. 
(ii) In c ases where the claim is payable abroad, the AD Category - banks must arrange to 
collect the full amount of claim due on the lost shipment, through the medium of their 
overseas branch/correspondent and release the duplicate copy of EDF only after the amount  
has been collected. 
(iii) A certificate for the amount of claim received should be furnished on the reverse of the 
duplicate copy. 
(iv) AD Category – I banks should ensure that amounts of claims on shipments lost in transit 
which are partially settled directly by shipping companies/airlines under carrier’s liability 
abroad are also repatriated to India by exporters. 
C.22 Export claims 
(i) AD Category – I banks may remit export claims on application, provided the relative export 
proceeds have already been realised and repatriated to India and the exporter is not on the 
caution list of the Reserve Bank. 
(ii) In all such cases of remittances, the exporter should be advised to surrender proportionate 
export incentives, if any, received by him. 
37C.23 “Write-off” of unrealised export bills 
C.23.1. An exporter who has not been able to reali se the outstanding export dues despite 
best efforts, may either self -write off or approach the AD Category – I banks, who had 
handled the relevant shipping documents, with appropriate supporting documentary evidence. 
The limits prescribed for write-offs of unrealised export bills are as under: 
Particulars Limit Limit(%) in relation to 
Self-write-off by an exporter  
(Other than the Status Holder 
Exporter) 
5%  
Total export proceeds realised during the 
calendar year preceding the year in which 
the write-off is being done Self-write-off  by Status Holder 
Exporter 
10% 
Write-off by AD Category-1 Bank 10% 
 
37 Inserted vide AP(DIR Series) Circular No.08 dated December 04, 2020

[Page 38]
C.23.2. The above limits of self -write-off and write -off by the AD Category -1 Bank shall be 
reckoned cumulatively and shall be available subject to the following conditions:  
a)  The relevant amount has remained outstanding for more than one year; 
b)  Satisfactory documentary evidence is furnished indicating that the exporter had made all 
efforts to realise the export proceeds;  
c) The exporter is a regular customer of the bank for a period of at least 6 months, is fully 
compliant with KYC/AML guidelines and AD Category – 1 Bank is satisfied with the 
bonafides of the transaction. 
d) The case falls under any of the undernoted categories: 
i. The overseas buyer has been declared insolvent and a certificate from the official 
liquidator, indicating that there is no possibility of recovery of export proceeds , has 
been produced. 
ii. The unreali sed amount represents the balance due in a case settled through the 
intervention of the Indian E mbassy, Foreign Chamber of Commerce or similar 
Organization; 
iii. The goods exported have been auctioned or destroyed by the Port / Customs / Health 
authorities in the importing country; 
iv. The overseas buyer is not traceable over a reasonably long period of time. 
v. The unreali sed amount represents the undrawn balance of an export bill (not 
exceeding 10% of the invoice value) remaining outstanding and turned out to be 
unrealizable despite all efforts made by the exporter; 
vi. The cost of resorting to legal action would be disproportionate to the unreali sed 
amount of the export bill or where the exporter even after winning the Court case 
against the overseas buyer could not execute the Court decree due to reasons beyond 
his control; 
vii. Bills were drawn for the difference betw een the letter of credit value and actual export 
value or between the provisional and the actual freight charges but the amounts have 
remained unreali sed consequent on dishonor of the bills by the overseas buyer and 
there are no prospects of realization. 
C.23.3. Notwithstanding anything contained in para C.23.1 and C.23.2 above, the AD 
Category-1 bank may, on request of the exporter, write- off unrealised export bills without any 
limit in respect of cases falling under any of the categories specified at C.23.2 (d) (i), (ii) and  
(iii) above provided AD Category - 1 bank is satisfied with the documentary evidence 
produced.

[Page 39]
C.23.4. AD Category-1 banks may also permit write- off of outstanding amount of export bills 
up to the specified ceilings indicated in para C.23.1 above, where the documents have been 
directly dispatched by the exporter to the consignee or his agent resident in the country of 
final destination of goods if the case falls under any of the categories specified at C.23.2 (d) 
(i), (ii) and (iii) above. 
C.23.5. The AD Category -1 banks shall ensure that the exporter seeking write- off has 
submitted documentary evidence towards surrendering of proportionate export incentives if 
any, availed of in respect of the relative export bill.  
C.23.6. In cas e of self -write-off, the AD Category -1 bank shall obtain from the exporter, a 
certificate from Chartered Accountant indicating the export realization in the preceding 
calendar year and details of the amount of write- off, if any, already availed of during t he 
current calendar year along with the requisite details of the EDF/Export Bill under the write- off 
request. This certificate shall also indicate that the export benefits, if any, availed by the 
exporter have been surrendered. 
C.23.7. The following cases, however, would not qualify for the “write-off” facility: 
a. Exports made to countries with externalization problem i.e. where the overseas buyer has 
deposited the value of export in local currency but the amount has not been allowed to be 
repatriated by the Central Bank/ authorities of the country concerned. 
b. EDF/Softex which are under investigation by agencies like, Enforcement Directorate, 
Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Central Bureau of Investigation, etc. as also the 
outstanding bills which are subject matter of civil / criminal suit. 
C.23.8. AD Category – 1 banks shall report write-off of export bills in Export Data Processing 
and Monitoring System (EDPMS).  
C.23.9. AD banks shall put in place a system to carry out random check / percentage check of 
the export bills so written-off by their internal Inspectors/Auditors (including external Auditors).  
C.23.10. Requests of write- off not covered under the above instructions may be referred to 
the Regional Office concerned of the Reserve Bank. 
C.24 Write off in cases of p ayment of c laims by ECGC and private insurance 
companies regulated by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) 
(i) AD Category  – I banks shall, on an application received from the exporter supported by 
documentary evidence from the ECGC and private insurance companies regulated by IRDA

[Page 40]
confirming that the claim in respect of the outstanding bills has been settled by them, write off 
the relative export bills 38in EDPMS. 
(ii) Such write-off will not be restricted to the limit of 10 per cent indicated above. 
(iii) Surrender of incentives, if any, in such cases will be as provided in the Foreign Trade 
Policy. 
(iv) The claims settled in rupees by ECGC and private insurance companies regulated by 
IRDA should not be construed as export realization in foreign exchange. 
C.25 Write-off – relaxation 
As announced in the Foreign Trade Policy (FTP), 2015- 20, realization of export proceeds 
shall not be insisted upon under any of the Export Promotion Schemes under the said FTP, 
subject to the following conditions: 
a) The write off on the basis of merits is allowed by the Reserve Bank or by AD Category – I 
bank on behalf of the Reserve Bank, as per extant guidelines; 
b) The exporter produces a certificate from the Foreign Mission of India concerned, about the 
fact of non-recovery of export proceeds from the buyer; and 
c) This would not be applicable in self write off cases. 
39C.26 Set-off of export receivables against import payables 
C.26.1. AD category –I banks may deal with the following requests received from their 
Exporter/Importer constituents for allowing set -off of outstanding export receivables against 
outstanding import payables: 
i. Set-off of outstanding export receivables against outstanding import payables from/to 
the same overseas buyer/supplier. 
ii. Set-off of outstanding export receivables against outstanding import payables with their 
overseas group/associate companies either on net basis or gross basis, through an in-
house or outsourced centralized settlement arrangement.  
 The set-off shall be subject to the following conditions: 
a. The arrangement shall be operationalised/supervised through/by one AD Category – I 
bank only 
 
38 Inserted by AP (DIR) Series Circular No. 74 dated May 26, 2016 with effect from June 15, 2016. Prior to insertion it read as: “and 
delete them from the XOS statement.” 
39 Inserted vide AP(DIR Series) Circular No.08 dated December 04, 2020

[Page 41]
b. AD Category – I bank is satisfied with the bonafides of the transactions and ensures 
that there are no KYC/AML/CFT concerns; 
c. The invoices under the transaction are not under investigation by Directorate of 
Enforcement/Central Bureau of Investigation or any other investigative agency; 
d. Import/export of goods/services has been undertaken as per the extant Foreign Trade 
policy 
e. The expor t / import transactions with ACU countries are kept outside the 
arrangement; 
f. Set-off of export receivables against goods shall not be allowed against import 
payables for services and vice versa. 
g. AD Category – I bank shall ensure that import payables/export  receivables are 
outstanding at the time of allowing set -off. Further, set -off shall be allowed between 
the export and import legs taking place during the same calendar year. 
h. In case of bilateral settlement, the set -off shall be in respect of same overseas  
buyer/supplier subject to it being supported by verifiable agreement/mutual consent. 
i. In case of settlement within the group/associates companies, the arrangement shall 
be backed by a written, legally enforceable agreement/contract. AD Category – I bank 
shall ensure that the terms of agreement are strictly adhered to; 
j. Set-off shall not result in tax evasion/avoidance by any of the entities involved in such 
arrangement. 
k. Third party guidelines shall be adhered to by the concerned entities, wherever 
applicable; 
l. AD Category –  I bank shall ensure compliance with all the regulatory requirement 
relating to the transactions; 
m. AD Category – I bank may seek Auditors/CA certificate wherever felt necessary. 
n. Each of the export and import transaction shall be reported separately (gross basis) in 
FETERS/EDPMS/IDPMS, as applicable. 
o. AD Category – I bank to settle the transaction in E/IDPMS by utilizing the ‘set -off 
indicator’ and mentioning the details of shipping bills/bill of entry/invoice details being 
settled in the remark column (including details of entities involved). 
C.27 Netting -off of export receivables against import payments –  Units in Special 
Economic Zones (SEZs) 
AD Category -  I banks may allow requests received from exporters for ‘netting off’ of export 
receivables against import payments for units located in Special Economic Zones subject to 
the following:

[Page 42]
(i) The netting off of export receivables against import payments is in respect of the same 
Indian entity and the overseas buyer / supplier (bilateral  netting) and the netting may be done 
as on the date of balance sheet of the unit in SEZ. 
(ii) The details of export of goods are documented in EDF (O) forms / DTR as the case may 
be while details of import of goods / services are recorded through A1 / A2 form as the case 
may be. The relative EDF will be treated as complete by the designated AD Category – I 
banks only after the entire proceeds are adjusted / received. 
(iii) Both the transactions of sale and purchase in R - Returns under FETERS are reported 
separately. 
(iv) The export / import transactions with ACU countries are kept outside the arrangement. 
(v) All the relevant documents are submitted to the concerned AD Category – I banks who 
should comply with all the regulatory requirements relating to the transactions. 
C.28 Exporters’ Caution List 
401) An exporter would be caution-listed by the Reserve Bank based on the recommendations 
of the AD bank concerned, depending upon the exporters track record with the AD bank and 
investigative agencies. 
The AD bank would make recommendations in this regard to the Regional Office concerned 
of the Foreign Exchange Department of the Reserve Bank in case the exporter has come to 
the adverse notice of the Enforcement Directorate(ED) / Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) 
/ Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) /any such other law enforcement agency and/or 
the exporter is not traceable and/or is not making sincere efforts to realise the export 
proceeds. 
The AD bank would also make recommendations to the Regional O ffice of the Reserve Bank 
for de-caution-listing an exporter as per the laid down procedure. 
 
40 Inserted by A P (DIR) Series Circular No. 03 dated October 09, 2020. Prior to insertion it read as: “(1) Caution Listing/ de-caution Listing of 
exporters is automated in EDPMS. The updated list of caution listed exporters can be accessed through EDPMS on a daily basis.  Criteria 
laid down for cautioning/ de- cautioning of exporters in EDPMS are as under: (a) The exporters would be caution listed if any shipping bill 
against them remains open for more than two years in EDPMS provided no extension is granted by AD Category – I bank / RBI. Date of 
shipment will be considered for reckoning the realisation period. (b) Once related bills are realised and closed or extension  for realisation is 
granted, the exporter will automatically be de-caution listed. (c) The exporters can also be caution listed even before the expiry of two years 
period based on the recommendation of AD banks. The recommendation may be based on cases where exporter has come to adverse 
notice of the Enforcement Directorate (ED)/ Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)/ Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI)/ any such other 
law enforcement agency or the case where exporter is not traceable or not making any serious efforts for realisation of expor t proceeds. In 
such cases, AD may forward its findings to the concerned regional off ice of RBI recommending inclusion of the name of the exporter in the 
caution list. (d) Reserve Bank will caution / de-caution the exporters in such cases based on the recommendation of AD Category – I banks.

[Page 43]
2) AD Category – I banks should follow the procedure mentioned below while handling 
shipping documents in respect of caution listed exporters: 
(a) They will intimate the exporters about their caution listing, giving the details of outstanding 
shipping bills. When caution listed exporters submit shipping documents for negotiation / 
purchase/ discount/ collection, etc. the AD Category – I bank may accept the documents  
subject to following conditions:- 
(i) The exporters concerned should produce evidence of having received advance 
payment or an irrevocable letter of credit in their favour covering the full value of the 
proposed exports;  
(ii) In case of usance bills, the relative letter of credit should cover full export value and 
also permit such drawings. Besides, the usance bills should also mature within 
prescribed realisation period reckoned from date of shipment.  
(iii) Except under the above mentioned conditions given in 2 (a) (i) and (ii), AD banks 
should not handle the shipping documents of caution listed exporters. 
(b) AD Category – I banks should obtain prior approval of the Reserve Bank for issuing 
guarantees for caution-listed exporters. 
C.29 [Omitted]41 
C.30 Issuance of Electronic Bank Realisation Certificate (eBRC) 
 
42AD Category-I banks are required to update the EDPMS with data of export proceeds on 
“as and when realised basis” and, with effect from October 16, 2017, they are required to 
generate Electronic Bank Realisation Certificate (eBRC) only from the data available in 
EDPMS, to ensure consistency of data in EDPMS and consolidated eBRC. 
C.31 43Export Data Processing and Monitoring System (EDPMS) - reconciliation of 
export entries – Special Procedure 
 
41 Omitted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated January 12, 2026. Prior to omission, it read as “Issue of Guarantees 
by an Authorised Dealer  (1) An authorized dealer may give guarantee in respect of any debt, obligation or other liability 
incurred by a person resident in India and owned to a person resident outside India, where the debt, obligation or other 
liability is incurred by the person resident in India as an exporter, on account of exports from India. 
(2) An authorised dealer may give a guarantee in respect of any debt, obligation or other liability incurred by a person 
resident outside India, in the following cases, namely: 
(i) where such debt, obligation or liability is owned to a person resident in India in connection with a bonafide trade 
transaction: 
Provided that the guarantee given under this clause is covered by a counter -guarantee of a bank of international repute 
resident broad; 
(ii) as a counter -guarantee to cover guarantee issued by his branch or correspondent outside India, on behalf of Indian 
exporter in cases where guarantees of only resident banks are acceptable to overseas buyers.” 
42 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.04 dated September 15, 2017 
43 Inserted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.12 dated October 01, 2025

[Page 44]
Notwithstanding anything contained in this master direction, AD banks shall adopt the 
following procedure while closing entries (including outstanding entries) in EDPMS of value 
equivalent to ₹10 lakh per entry/bill or less: 
a. Such entries shall be reconciled and closed based on a declaration provided by the 
concerned exporter that the amount has been realised. 
b. Any reduction in declared value or invoice value of the shipping bills shall also be 
accepted, based on the declaration by the concerned exporter.  
c. The declarations referred above may also be received on a quarterly basis from the 
exporters in a consolidated manner (by combining several bills in one declaration) for bulk 
reconciliation and closing of EDPMS entries. 
ii. Accordingly, AD ba nks shall also review the charges levied for handling these small -value 
export transactions, keeping in view the revised procedure/relaxations mentioned above and 
ensure that the same are commensurate with the services rendered. AD banks shall not levy 
any penal charges (penalty) for delays in adherence to any regulatory guidelines. 
PART-D Remittances connected with Export 
D.1 Agency commission on exports 
(i) AD Category – I banks may allow payment of commission, either by remittance or by 
deduction from invoice value, on application submitted by the exporter. The remittance on 
agency commission may be allowed subject to conditions as under: 
a) Amount of commission has been declared on EDF/SOFTEX form and accepted by the 
Customs authorities or Ministry of Information Technology, Government of India / EPZ 
authorities as the case may be. In cases where the commission has not been declared on 
EDF/SOFTEX form, remittance may be allowed after satisfying the reasons adduced by the 
exporter for not declaring commission on Export Declaration Form, provided a valid 
agreement/written understanding between the exporters and/or beneficiary for payment of 
commission exists. 
b) The relative shipment has already been made. 
(ii) AD Category –  I banks may allow payment of commission by Indian exporters, in respect 
of their exports covered under counter trade arrangement through Escrow Accounts 
designated in US Dollar, subject to the following conditions: 
a) The payment of commission satisfies the conditions as at (a) and (b) stipulated in 
paragraph (i) above. 
b) The commission is not payable to Escrow Account holders themselves. 
c) The commission should not be allowed by deduction from the invoice value.

[Page 45]
(iii) Payment of commission is prohibited on exports made by Indian Partners towards equity 
participation in an overseas joint venture / wholly owned subsidiary as also exports under 
Rupee Credit Route except commission up to 10 per cent of invoice value of exports of tea & 
tobacco. 
44D.2 Refund of export proceeds 
AD Category – I banks, through whom the export proceeds were originally reali sed may 
consider requests for refund of export proceeds of goods exported from India and being re-
imported into India on account of poor quality. While permitting such tr ansactions, AD 
Category – I banks shall: 
(i) Exercise due diligence regarding the track record of the exporter; 
(ii) Verify the bona-fides of the transactions; 
(iii) Obtain from the exporter a certificate issued by DGFT / Custom authorities that no export 
incentive has been availed by the exporter against the relevant export or the proportionate 
incentives availed, if any, have been surrendered; 
(iv) Not insist on the requirement of re- import of goods, where exported goods have been 
auctioned or destroyed by the Port / Customs  / Health authorities/ any other accredited 
agency in the importing country subject to submission of satisfactory documentary 
evidence. 
D.2.1. In all other cases AD banks shall ensure that procedures as applicable to normal 
imports are adhered to and that an undertaking from the exporter, to re- import the goods 
within three months from the date of refund of export proceeds, shall be obtained. 
  
 
44 Inserted vide AP(DIR Series) Circular No.08 dated December 04, 2020

[Page 46]
Appendix 
List of Circulars which have been consolidated in the 
Master Direction on Export of Goods and Services 
Sl No Circular No. Subject Date 
1 FEMA Notification No.23(R)/2015 -RB 
dated January 12, 2016 
Foreign Exchange Management (Export of Goods and 
Services) Regulations, 2015 
January 1, 2016 
2 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.28) Opening, holding and maintaining Foreign Currency 
Account in India by Unit in Special Economic Zones 
(SEZs 
October 3, 2002 
3 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.91 Export of Goods and Services - Facilities to Units in 
Special Economic Zones (SEZs) 
April 1, 2003 
4 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.100 Export of Goods and Services - Exports to Warehouses 
Abroad 
May 2, 2003 
5 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.77 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 - Guidelines 
for Compilation of R-Returns 
March 13, 2004 
6 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.71 Data on Project Export Finance June 8, 2007 
7 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.30 Compilation of Bank-wide consolidated R-Return February 25,2008 
8 A.P (DIR Series) Circular No.43 Settlement system under ACU Mechanism December 26, 2008 
9 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.84 Compilation of R-Returns : Reporting under FETERS February 29, 2012 
10 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.46 Supply of Goods and Services by Special Economic 
Zones to Units in Domestic Tariff Areas 
October 23, 2012 
11 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.60 Export Outstanding Statement (XOS) Online Bank wide 
Submission 
October 01, 2013 
12 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.62 Closing of Old Outstanding Bills : Export - Follow-up - 
XOS Statements 
October 14, 2013 
13 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.63 Memorandum of Procedure for Channeling 
Transactions through Asian Clearing Union (ACU) 
October 18, 2013 
14 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.146 Export & Import of Currencies: Enhanced facilities for 
residents and non-residents 
June 19, 2014 
15 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 11 Export of Goods and Services - Project Exports July 22, 2014 
16 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.93 Export of Goods and Services - Project Exports April 1, 2015 
17 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 21 Memorandum of Procedure for channeling transactions 
through Asian Clearing Union (ACU) 
October 08, 2015 
18 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 68 
[(1)/23(R)] 
Foreign Exchange Management (Exports of Goods and 
Services) Regulations, 2015 
May 12, 2016 
19 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 74 Export Data Processing and Monitoring System 
(EDPMS) – Additional Modules for caution listing of 
exporters, reporting of advance remittance for exports 
and migration of old XOS data 
May 26, 2016 
20 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 04 Export Data Processing and Monitoring System 
(EDPMS) Issuance of El ectronic Bank Realisation 
Certificate (eBRC) 
September 15, 
2017 
21 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 10 Re-export of unsold rough diamonds from Special 
Notified Zone of Customs without Export Declaration 
Form (EDF) formality 
November 22, 2019 
22 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 22 Settlement system under Asian Clearing Union (ACU) 
Mechanism 
March 17, 2020 
23 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 27 Export of Goods and Services - Realisation and 
Repatriation of Export Proceeds-Relaxation 
April 01, 2020 
24 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 03 Export Data Processing and Monitoring System 
(EDPMS) Module for ‘Caution/De- caution Listing of 
Exporters’ – Review 
October 09, 2020 
25 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 08 External Trade – Facilitation - Export of Goods and 
Services 
December 04, 2020 
26 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 13 Use of any Alternative reference rate in place of LIBOR 
for interest payable in respect of export / import 
transactions 
September 28, 
2021 
27 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 Asian Clearing Union (ACU) Mechanism – Indo-Sri July 08, 2022

[Page 47]
Lanka trade 
28 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 22 Asian Clearing Union (ACU) Mechanism – Indo-
Maldives trade 
March 17, 2025 
29 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 03 Exports through warehouses in ‘Bharat Mart’ in UAE – 
relaxations 
April 23, 2025 
30 Notification No. FEMA 10 (R)(6)/2025-RB Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign Currency 
Accounts by a Person Resident in India) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025  
April 29, 2025 
31 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 12 Export Data Processing and Monitoring System 
(EDPMS) & Import Data Processing and Monitoring 
System (IDPMS) – reconciliation of export /import 
entries – Review of Guidelines 
October 01, 2025 
32 Notification No. FEMA 10(R)(7)/2025-RB Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign Currency 
Accounts by a person resident in India) (Seventh 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
October 06, 2025 
33 A.P (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 Foreign Exchange Management (Guarantee) 
Regulations, 2026 
January 12, 2026 
34 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 Special Rupee Vostro Accounts (SRVAs) July 17, 2026
