[Page 1]
RBI/FED/ 2015-16/16 
  FED Master Direction No.2/2015-16                                                       January 1, 2016 
(Updated as on December 22, 2022) 
(Updated as on September 08, 2020) 
                                                                                  (Updated as on August  31, 2018) 
                                                                                                (Updated as on May 19, 2017) 
                                                                                         (Updated as on October 20, 2016) 
                                                                                               (Updated as on April 28, 2016)                                                                                       
                                                                                           
To 
 
All Authorised Persons in Foreign Exchange 
 
Madam / Dear Sir, 
  
Master Direction – Opening and Maintenance of Rupee/Foreign Currency Vostro 
Accounts of Non-resident Exchange Houses 
Rupee Drawing Arrangement (RDA) is a channel to receive cross-border remittances from 
overseas jurisdictions. Under this arrangement, the Authorised Category I banks enter into 
tie-ups with the non-resident Exchange Houses to open and maintain their Vostro Account.   
2. Reserve Bank issues directions to Authorised Persons, including Authorised Category I 
banks, under Section 11 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, in regard to 
conduct foreign exchange business in compliance with the provisions of the Act and any 
rules, regulations, notifications, directions or orders made there under. 
3. The directions relating to Opening and Maintenance of Rupee/ Foreign Currency Vostro 
Accounts of Non- resident Exchange Houses in India are being issued in a consoli dated 
form through the Master Direction enclosed herewith. Reporting instructions can be found 
in Master Direction on Reporting. It may be noted that whenever necessary, Reserve Bank 
shall issue directions to Authorised Persons through A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars in regard 
to any change in the rules, regulations, notifications, directions or orders or the manner in 
which relative transactions are to be conducted by the Authorised Persons with their 
customers/constituents. The Master Direction issued herewith shall be amended suitably 
simultaneously. 
   Yours faithfully, 
 (Vivek Srivastava) 
Chief General Manager

[Page 2]
1 
 
Master Direction - Opening and Maintenance of Rupee/ Foreign Currency 
Vostro Accounts of Non-resident Exchange Houses 
1. Introduction 
Cross-border inward remittances may also be received under Rupee Drawing 
Arrangements (RDAs) through the Rupee Vostro Account of Exchange Houses 
situated in Gulf countries, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia (for Malaysia only 
under Speed Remittance Procedure)  and all other countries which are FATF 
compliant (for all other countries which are FATF compliant only under Speed 
Remittance Procedure). 
This document covers the general instructions, permitted transactions and the 
various types of arrangements under this route. The guidelines for Foreign 
Currency Drawing Arrangements and other miscellaneous provisions are also 
covered in the later part of the document.  
2. General Instructions 
AD Category–I banks should apply to the concerned Regional Office of the Reserve 
Bank in the prescribed form with necessary documents for the first time they enter 
into RDAs with non –resident Exchange Houses from Gulf  countries, Hong Kong, 
Singapore, Malaysia and all other countries which are FATF compliant, for opening 
and maintaining in India the Rupee vostro accounts of those non-resident 
Exchange Houses. Subsequently, they may enter into RDAs, subject to the 
prescribed guidelines and inform the Reserve Bank immediately.  However, once 
the total number of RDAs reaches twenty, the AD Category -I bank may cause a 
detailed external audit of their internal system to ensure that it is working 
satisfactorily. Based on the s atisfactory report, the Board of AD Category -I banks 
may authorize more such arrangements. A copy of the Board Note together with 
Board Resolution in the matter may be filed with the Reserve Bank and new 
arrangements informed to the Reserve Bank immediately. Rupee/ foreign currency 
vostro accounts of non-resident Exchange Houses in India may be opened by the 
AD Category I banks subject to the following conditions: 
(a) While considering the request of an Exchange House for opening an account in 
India, the AD  Category-I banks concerned should make necessary 
enquiries  about the financial standing of the Exchange House, in accordance 
with  the normal banking practices and satisfy themselves fully in all 
respects.  AD Category-I banks should also ensure that the Exchange Houses

[Page 3]
2 
 
hold valid licenses issued by the Local Monetary/ Supervisory Authority 
concerned and have necessary authority / license to transact currency 
exchange/ money transfer business.  
(b) The requirement of registration of the Agreement between the AD Category -I 
banks and Exchange Houses under the Rupee Drawing Arrangement/ Foreign 
Currency Drawing Arrangement has been made optional. However, such 
arrangements should be subjected to comprehensive legal documentation and 
AD Category-I banks should take care of all necessary legal requirements in 
this regard. Further, it should be ensured that all the partners of the Exchange 
Houses are jointly and severally bound to honour the obligations devolving on 
the Exchange Houses under the agreement. 
(c) The normal banking requirements of registration of Power of Attorney/ 
specimen signatures of signing officials of the Exchange Houses should be 
observed. 
3. Instructions regarding operations in the Rupee vostro accounts  
(a) The accounts can be used for channeling cross- border inward remittances into 
India primarily on private account. The remitter and the beneficiary should be 
individuals barring a few exceptions. Remittances through Exchange Houses 
for financing of trade transactions are permitted up t o Rs.15,00,000 (Rupees 
fifteen lakhs only) per transaction. The accounts should not be used for 
cross-border outward remittances from India. 
(b) The accounts should run on a credit basis. No overdraft should be granted to 
the account holders. However, in case of Designated Depository Agency (DDA) 
procedure, the funds lying in the DDA A/c may be taken into account, if need 
be. AD Category-I banks shall adopt value dating where on-line debit to Rupee 
vostro account is not possible on a real time basis when any payment is made 
at drawee branches, to check adequacy of funds and detect concealed 
overdrafts. However, in such cases, it may be ensured that the drawee 
branches are networked at the earliest. 
(c) Separate Rupee vostro account shall be maintained for each arrangement. The 
accounts should be funded by sale of permitted foreign currency to the AD 
Category-I bank, which maintains the account. Rupee funds transferred from 
another AD Category-I bank or from another vostro account will not be eligible 
for credit to the account.

[Page 4]
3 
 
(d) Debits of permitted types of inward remittances  [vide item 3(a) above] may be 
allowed freely and given the same status as remittances made in foreign 
exchange in an approved manner  to India. Thus, such payments will be eligible 
for credit to Non -Resident (External) Rupee Accounts maintained by Non -
Resident Indians, or for acceptance under priority allotment, etc. , schemes. In 
order to facilitate  tourists (whether Indian or not), receiving remittances through 
such accounts to  prove the external sources of the funds wherever required 
(such as for payment of passages in India or for re- conversion of unutilised 
balances), AD Category -I banks may issue certificates in the same form as 
obtaining for inward remittances received through Rupee accounts of overseas 
banks.  
(e) Funds in such accounts will not be convertible, nor will they be transferable to 
other AD Category-I banks or to other non- resident accounts maintained with 
the same AD Category-I bank. For closure of the Vostro accounts and remitting 
back funds (in foreign currency), if any, under RDA, prior permission of RBI is 
not required. However, the AD Category I bank may reconcile the accounts 
before effecting the closure. Further, the AD Category I banks may report the 
foreign currency outflow in Statement ‘E’. 1 
(f) Balances in such accounts will not qualify for payment of interest.  
(g) The branch of the AD Category –I bank maintaining the Rupee vostro account 
of the Exchange House should not credit to the account, r upees purchased by 
the latter unless confirmation is received to the effect that the nostro account of 
the AD Category -I bank has been credited with the counter -value in foreign 
currency (cf. paragraph 3.3.1 of the Guidelines for Internal Control over Foreign 
Exchange Business, February, 2011). 
(h) AD Category-I banks may obtain suitable and adequate collateral either in the 
form of a cash deposit in any convertible foreign currency or guarantee of a 
bank of international repute, depending on the type of arrangement to take care 
of  the credit and operational risks.  They may frame their own policy in this 
regard2. 
(i) A cap of 300 on the number of drawee branches has been prescribed by the 
Reserve Bank as a prudential measure. However, AD Category -I banks may 
                                       
1 Inserted on May 19, 2017 
2 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.66 dated April 28, 2016

[Page 5]
4 
 
designate drawee branches beyond 300, provided such branches are under the 
Core Banking Solution where on-line monitoring of funds position is ensured to 
avoid concealed overdrafts in vostro accounts, subject to the terms and 
conditions of Reserve Bank’s approval for the tie -up with an Exchange House 
and the instructions pertaining to RDA issued by the Reserve Bank from time to 
time. The AD Category-I banks should obtain necessary Board approval before 
increasing the number of drawee branches beyond 300 and should  inform the 
position to the Reserve Bank immediately. 
 
4. Permitted Transactions 
(a) Drawing Arrangements with Exchange Houses are primarily designed to 
channel cross-border inward personal remittances. Under no circumstances, 
donations / contributions to charitable institutions should be routed 
through the Exchange Houses.  
(b) The following is the list of permissible transactions under Drawing Arrangements 
with Exchange Houses: 
(i) Credit to Non -resident (External) Rupee accounts maintained by Non -
Resident Indians in Indian Rupees. 
(ii) Payments to families of Non-resident Indians. 
(iii) Payments in favour of Insurance companies, Mutual Funds and the Post 
Master for premia / investments. 
(iv) Payments in favour of bankers for investments in shares, debentures. 
(v) Payment to Co -operative Housing Societies, Government Housing 
Schemes or Estate Developers for acquisition of residential flats in India in 
individual names, subject to compliance of regulations applicable thereof, 
by the Non-resident Indians. 
(vi) Payments of tuition/ boarding, examination fee, etc., to schools, colleges 
and other educational institutions. 
(vii) Payments to medical institutions and hospitals in India, for medical 
treatment of NRIs / their dependents and nationals of all FATF countries. 
(viii) Payments to hotels by nationals of all FATF compliant countries / NRIs for 
their stay.

[Page 6]
5 
 
(ix) Payments to travel agents for booking of passages of NRIs and their 
families residing in India towards their travel in India by domestic airlines / 
rail, etc. 
(x) Trade transactions up to Rs.15,00,000 (Rupees Fifteen lakhs only) per 
transaction.3  
(xi) Payments to utility service providers in India, for services such as water 
supply, electricity supply, telephone (except for mobile top -ups), internet, 
television, etc. 
(xii) Tax payments in India 
(xiii) EMI payments in India to Banks and Non- Banking Financial Companies 
(NBFCs) for repayment of loans. 
(xiv) Remittances to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund/4Chief Minister’s 
Distress Relie f Fund - Kerala/5Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and 
Relief in Emergency Situations (PM -CARES) Fund  subject to the 
condition that the remittances are directly credited to the Fund by the 
banks and the banks maintain full details of the remitters 
Note: No cash disbursement of remittances received is allowed under Rupee / Foreign 
Currency Drawing Arrangements. 
 
(c) Foreign inward remittances received by the AD Category -I Bank (termed as 
‘Partner Bank’) having RDA with Non Resident Exchange Houses may be 
credited directly to the account of the beneficiary held with a bank other than 
the AD Category -I Bank (termed as ‘Recipient Bank’) through the following 
means:  
i. Electronic mode, such as, NEFT, IMPS, etc.  
ii. 6Bharat Bill Payment System (BBPS) 
The above shall be subject to the following conditions: 
i. The Recipient Bank will credit the amount transferred by the Partner Bank 
only to the KYC compliant bank accounts.  
ii. In respect of the bank accounts which are not KYC compliant, the 
Recipient Bank shall carry out KYC/CDD of the recipient before the 
remittance to such account is credited or allowed to be withdrawn.  
                                       
3 Deleted Vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated October 20, 2016 
4 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.  dated August 29, 2018 
5 Inserted vide A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 28 dated April 03, 2020 
6 Inserted vide A.P (DIR Series) Circular No. 14 dated September 15, 2022

[Page 7]
6 
 
iii. The Partner Bank (i.e. the AD Category -I Bank receiving foreign inward 
remittance through non- resident exchange houses under RDA) shall 
appropriately mark the direct -to-account remittances to indicate to the 
Recipient Bank that it is a foreign inward remittance.  
iv. The Partner Bank shall ens ure that accurate originator information and 
necessary beneficiary information is included in the electronic message 
while transferring the fund to the Recipient Bank. This information should be 
available in the remittance message throughout the payment chain, i.e., the 
Non Resident Exchange House, the Partner Bank and the Recipient Bank. 
The Partner Bank should add an appropriate alert in the electronic message 
indicating that this is a foreign inward remittance and should not be credited 
to a KYC non-compliant account.  
v. The identification and other documents of the recipient shall be maintained 
by the Recipient Bank as per the provisions of Prevention of Money 
Laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005. All other requirements 
under KYC/AML/CFT guidelines issued by  the Reserve Bank of India from 
time to time shall be adhered to by the Partner Bank.  
vi. The Recipient Bank may seek additional information from the Partner 
Bank and shall report suspicious transactions to the FIU -IND with details of 
the Partner Bank through which they received the remittances.  
5 Types of Rupee Drawing Arrangements and Collateral Cover  
Rupee Drawing Arrangements can be conducted under the Designated Depository 
Agency (DDA), Non -Designated Depository Agency (Non- DDA) and Speed 
Remittance procedures. 
A. Designated Depository Agency (DDA) Procedure 
(a) The Exchange House will be required to open a bank account in a convertible 
foreign currency (known as DDA account) in the name of the drawee bank (a/c 
- Exchange House) with an international bank acceptable to the drawee bank at 
a centre mutually agreed upon or with the drawee bank itself at the branch 
where the corresponding Rupee vostro account is maintained, with the prior 
approval of the Reserve Bank. 
(b) The Exchange House will, at the end of each day, arrive at the total drawings in 
Indian Rupees for the day and will convert the same into foreign currency which 
shall be deposited into the account of the drawee bank (a/c -Exchange House)

[Page 8]
7 
 
[known as DDA account, as described at 1(a) above] on the next working day 
before noon. 
(c) The Exchange House will send to the drawee bank information about the total 
number and the aggregate value of drafts drawn and daily deposits in the DDA 
account. Transfer from the DDA account should be as frequently as p ossible 
and is subject to the stipulation as at 1(e) below. 
(d) The funds will be held in the DDA account under lien to the drawee bank. The 
only debits allowed from the DDA account will be (i) on account of transfer to 
the nostro account of the drawee bank where the DDA account is maintained 
with a bank other than the drawee bank, (ii) for crediting the Rupee vostro 
account of the Exchange House by selling permitted foreign currency to the 
drawee bank where the DDA account is maintained with the drawee bank. 
(e) It will be the responsibility of the Exchange House to arrange for the transfer of 
the sum collected on any particular day to the DDA account. The float period for 
the funds with DDA account will be decided by the drawee bank in consultation 
with the Exchange House subject to a maximum of five days. 
(f) The interest earned on the amount deposited by the Exchange House with the 
DDA as provided for at 1 (b) above, up to the date of transfer to the nostro 
account of the drawee bank will accrue to the Exchange House. 
(g) To ensure compliance of the above, the drawee bank in India will appoint a firm 
of practicing Chartered Accountants/ Auditors, operating in the country 
concerned to examine the daily drawings and deposits in the accounts with the 
DDA as w ell as transfer to the nostro account of the drawee bank. For this 
purpose, the Exchange House will undertake to allow the auditors to inspect the 
books, pay in vouchers, etc., of the Exchange House in so far as they pertain to 
Rupee drawing arrangement. S uch inspections will be done at least once or 
twice every week by the auditors. 
(h) As an alternative to the appointment of auditors as mentioned in paragraph 1(g) 
above, the AD Category -I bank may depute a suitable official as their 
representative to the Exchange House to take up such functions so as to 
safeguard the interests of the AD Category-I bank. 
(i) The auditors / representative will promptly report the findings to the drawee 
bank. In case of default on the part of the Exchange House, the drawee ba nk 
will as per terms and conditions of agreement, terminate the agency

[Page 9]
8 
 
arrangement under notice to the Exchange House. The termination will also be 
promptly reported to the Reserve Bank. 
(j) So long as the Exchange House complies with the guidelines, the drawee bank 
will ensure that the drafts issued are honoured at the branches mutually agreed 
to. 
(k) The remuneration payable to the auditors will be borne by the drawee banks.  
(l) Drafts drawn by the Exchange House should have a validity of only three 
months from the date of issue thereof. 
(m) AD Category-I banks should satisfy themselves that the books of accounts of 
Exchange Houses are regularly audited by auditors approved by the local 
supervisory authorities. 
(n) AD Category-I banks should call for periodical credit reports, audited balance 
sheet and profit and loss account of the Exchange House and other relevant 
information so as to take a decision regarding continuance of accounts in their 
books. 
(o) Valid copies of all licenses should also be kept on record by the AD Category-I 
bank. 
(p) Since the books of account  of the Exchange House cannot be inspected, AD 
Category-I banks should periodically review the arrangement by paying visits to 
the Exchange Houses and / or by periodical review of opinion reports. The visits 
of officials from AD Category -I banks should be at a sufficiently senior level, 
who are fully conversant with the conduct of the Non-resident Rupee Accounts 
of the Exchange Houses. 
(q) Collateral Cover for DDA: For Exchange Houses which have not completed 
three years of operation, collateral cover in cash deposit in any convertible 
foreign currency or guarantee from a bank of international repute equivalent to 
7 days’ projected drawings may be obtained.   For Exchange Houses which 
have completed three years of successful operations, no collateral is 
prescribed.  However, AD Category -I banks may secure their position by 
acquiring adequate collateral cover.   Cash deposit in any convertible foreign 
currency or a guarantee from a bank of international repute equivalent to 15 
days’ estimated drawings may be obt ained as collateral cover where it is not 
possible to appoint auditors as mentioned at 1(g) above. The deposit should be 
in the name of the AD Category -I bank with interest thereon at market related

[Page 10]
9 
 
rates payable to the Exchange House placing the deposits.  The amount of 
deposit and guarantee should be periodically reviewed and properly monitored 
by the AD Category-I banks to ensure that the collateral covers adequately the 
drawings. 
B.     Non- DDA procedure 
(a) As an alternative to maintaining a DDA account and appointment of auditors as 
above, the AD Category-I banks may opt for the Non-DDA procedure. 
(b) Under Non–DDA procedure, the Exchange House funds their vostro account 
with the AD Category -I banks by purchasing rupees from the AD Category -I 
banks against USD for the total of drafts issued by them at periodic intervals 
and sends weekly statements of drawing and funding to the AD Category -I 
banks. 
(c) Collateral Cover for Non- DDA: For Exchange Houses which have not 
completed three years of operati on, collateral cover in cash deposit in any 
convertible foreign currency or guarantee from a bank of international repute 
equivalent to 7 days’ projected drawings may be obtained.  For Exchange 
Houses which have completed three years of successful operations, no 
collateral is prescribed.  Further, under Non- DDA arrangement, a collateral 
cover in cash deposit in any convertible foreign currency or guarantee from a 
bank of international repute equivalent to 10 days’ projected drawings may be 
obtained from Excha nge Houses. In addition to the above, if there is a 
restriction on the bank’s right to depute its own staff for examination of books of 
the Exchange House, as was in case of Exchange Houses in Kuwait, additional 
cash deposit in any convertible foreign curr ency / guarantee from a bank of 
international repute equivalent to 15 days’ estimated drawings may be 
obtained. The deposit should be in the name of the AD Category -I bank with 
interest thereon at market related rates payable to the Exchange House placing 
the deposits. The amount of deposit and guarantee should be periodically 
reviewed and properly monitored by the AD Category-I banks to ensure that the 
collateral adequately covers the drawings and account for the pipeline debits 
evaluated.

[Page 11]
10 
 
C. Speed Remittance Procedure    
(a) AD Category-I banks are permitted to enter into RDA under speed remittance 
procedure wherein: 
(i) The Exchange House sends payment instructions with complete details 
like name, address, etc., via SWIFT or internet. 
7(ii) Ordinarily, the Exchange House should fund the Rupee account through 
the nostro account of the AD Category -I bank in advance before issuing 
payment instructions  and on verification of data and availability of 
balances in the vostro account of the exchange house the AD Category-I 
bank issues drafts in favour of the beneficiary or credits the account of the 
beneficiary. 
8(iii) Where facility of speed remittance is extended to existing Rupee drawing 
arrangements, the Exchange House shall open a separate Rupee 
account with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. However, where the 
operations in the existing Rupee drawing arrangements under DDA/ Non-
DDA procedure are satisfactory, AD Category -I banks can extend the 
facility of speed remittance to the same Exchange House with out prior 
approval of the Reserve Bank, subject to usual terms and conditions and 
after obtaining all the necessary documents from the Exchange House. 
However, the Reserve Bank should be informed in the matter 
immediately.  
9(b)  The AD Category - I banks are free to determine the requirement of collateral, 
if any, based on factors such as whether the remittances are pre- funded, the 
                                       
7 Replaced vide A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.66 dated April 28, 2016. Prior to the replacement it read as: “The 
Exchange House funds the Rupee account through the nostro account of the AD Category -I bank well in 
advance before issuing payment instructions. On verification of data and avai lability of balances in the vostro 
account of the exchange house the AD Category-I bank issues drafts in favour of the beneficiary or credits the 
account of the beneficiary.” 
8 Replaced vide A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.66 dated April 28, 2016. Prior to the replacement it read as: 
“Where facility of speed remittance is extended to existing Rupee drawing arrangements, the Exchange House 
shall open a separate Rupee account with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank and no payment instructions 
shall be executed unless there are clear funds available in this account. However, where the operations in the 
existing Rupee drawing arrangements under DDA/ Non-DDA procedure are satisfactory, AD Category-I banks 
can extend the facility of speed remittance to the same Exchange House without prior approval of the Reserve 
Bank, subject to usual terms and conditions and after obtaining all the necessary documents from the Exchange 
House. However, the Reserve Bank should be informed in the matter immediately.” 
9 Replaced vide A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.66  dated April 28, 2016. Prior to the replacement it read as: 
“Collateral Cover for Speed Remittance Arrangement: For Exchange Houses, which have not completed three 
years of operation, collateral cover in cash deposit in any convertible foreign currency or guarantee from a bank 
of international repute equivalent to 7 days’ projected drawings may be obtained. For Exchange Houses, which 
have completed three years of successful operations, no collateral is prescribed. Further, the Exchange House 
shall keep with the AD Category -I bank an additional cash deposit in any convertible foreign currency or 
guarantee from a bank of international repute equivalent to 1 day’s estimated drawings. The deposit should be in

[Page 12]
11 
 
track record of the Exchange House, whether the remittances are effected on 
gross (real-time) or net (file transfer) bas is, etc. and may frame their own 
policy in this regard.  
 
6. Foreign Currency Drawing Arrangements 
AD Category-I banks may enter into foreign currency drawing arrangements under 
DDA or Non -DDA procedure with those Exchange Houses with whom they have 
Rupee Drawing Arrangements (RDAs), with prior approval of the Reserve Bank, 
subject to the following conditions. Each tie -up arrangement of an AD Category -I 
bank with an Exchange House under Foreign Currency Drawing Arrangements is 
required to be approved by the Reserve Bank. 
(a) Exchange Houses shall draw drafts in any convertible foreign currency on ‘A’ or 
‘B’ category branches of AD Category-I bank. No ‘C’ category branch is allowed 
to participate in the arrangement. 
(b) The foreign currency drawing arrangement shall be kept distinct from the 
Rupee drawing arrangement. 
(c) A separate foreign currency vostro account of the Exchange House shall be 
opened with the account maintaining branch. Payment of such drafts shall be 
made by debit to this account m aintained by the Exchange House and not to 
the nostro Account of the AD Category-I bank. 
(d) The aggregate amount of drafts drawn in foreign currency by the Exchange 
House on any day should be credited to the nostro Account of the drawee bank 
latest by close of business on the second working day. 
(e) The account maintaining branch of the drawee AD Category -I bank should 
credit foreign currency vostro account of the Exchange House on receipt of 
confirmation regarding credit to their nostro account. 
(f) AD Category-I banks should ensure that foreign currency accounts are funded 
at all times. 
(g) If the arrangement is under the Non- DDA procedure, the Exchange House 
should communicate to the account maintaining branch by any electronic 
                                                                                                                   
the name of the AD Category -I bank with interest thereon at market related rates payable to the Exchange 
House placing the deposits. The amount of deposit and guarantee should be periodically reviewed and properly 
monitored by the AD Category-I banks.”

[Page 13]
12 
 
mode, the number and aggre gate value of drafts drawn in foreign currency 
before close of the following working day. Under DDA procedure, such 
information may be obtained frequently, at least on a bi-weekly basis. 
(h) Collateral cover: Exchange Houses should keep a deposit of not less than USD 
50,000 with the drawee AD Category -I bank. Adequacy of quantum of deposit 
kept with the bank should be reviewed every six months on the basis of 
operations under this arrangement and if necessary the Exchange House 
should increase the quantum of the deposit. AD Category-I banks should allow 
interest on this deposit at an appropriate rate. 
(i) AD Category-I banks are allowed to keep the amount of deposit required to be 
kept under foreign currency draft drawing arrangements and Non- DDA 
procedure of Rupee Drawing Arrangement in India with the Account 
maintaining branch. 
7. Miscellaneous Provisions  
(a) AD Category-I banks should adhere to the Know Your Customer (KYC)/ Anti 
Money Laundering (AML) / Combating the Financing of Terrorism (CFT) 
Guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank, while undertaking any transaction 
under Rupee/ Foreign Currency Drawing Arrangements, as applicable. 
(b) AD Category-I banks should include in their concurrent audit the Rupee/ 
Foreign Currency Drawing Arrangement to ensure that credit of funds to the 
vostro account of the Exchange House takes place before payments are 
made to the beneficiaries. 
(c) AD Category-I banks should undertake a ‘due diligence’ exercise in respect 
of remittances received through Rupee/ Foreign Currency Drawing 
Arrangements so that regulations relating to anti -money laundering 
standards are complied with scrupulously. AD Category -I banks should call 
for an annual compliance report from the Exchange Houses duly certified by 
their auditors that they are adhering to th e home country KYC/ AML/ CFT 
regulations. 
(d) AD Category-I banks should keep the Reserve Bank informed of the unusual 
feature(s) in the operations of the Rupee/ Foreign Currency Drawing 
Arrangement  by exercising constant vigil in the matter.

[Page 14]
13 
 
(e) AD Category-I ba nks shall ensure that licenses of the Exchange Houses, 
which have expired are renewed and copies of authenticated English 
versions placed with them for their record. 
(f) The Exchange Houses should not enter into any arrangement with service 
providers for their  back office operations in India such as issuance of 
drawing advices and stop payment instructions on their behalf and AD 
Category-I banks should not act on the instructions of such service 
providers. However, Exchange Houses can establish liaison offices in India 
and back office operations in India and activities such as printing of drafts, 
issuance of drawing advices and stop payment instructions can be 
undertaken by the liaison offices in India with the prior approval of the 
Reserve Bank.  
(g) AD Category -I banks should obtain approval of the Reserve Bank for 
maintaining accounts of Exchange Houses whose name and constitution, 
etc., undergo changes. 
8. Internal Control and Monitoring of Accounts 
(a) AD Category -I banks should put in place adequate internal controls and a 
system of monitoring of accounts as per the extant instructions. Dealings with 
Exchange Houses should be strictly on credit basis at all times and no overdraft 
should be granted to the account holders.  
(b) Self-inspection of the vostro accounts of Exchange Houses : AD Category -I 
banks are required to cause inspection of the vostro accounts of Exchange 
Houses on a half -yearly basis through experienced officers. The inspection 
reports should be carefully gone through by the competent authorities in AD 
Category-I banks so that prompt corrective action is initiated. Observations 
thereon shall be included in the annual review of the accounts submitted to the 
Board.

[Page 15]
14 
 
Appendix 
List of A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars which have been consolidated in the Master 
Direction on Opening and Maintenance of Rupee/ Foreign Currency Vostro 
Accounts of Non-resident Exchange Houses 
Sl. 
No. 
Notification/ Circular Date 
1. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 28  
[A.P.(FL/ RL Series) Circular No. 02]   
February 6, 2008 
2. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.11 
[A.P.(FL/ RL Series) Circular No. 01]   
August 22, 2008 
3. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.37  
[A.P.(FL/ RL Series) Circular No. 02]   
December 2, 2008 
4. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 16  
[A.P.(FL/ RL Series) Circular No. 3]   
November 27, 2009 
5. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09  
[A.P.(FL/ RL Series) Circular No. 01]   
August 29, 2011 
6. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 72  January 30, 2012 
7. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 81  January 24, 2013 
8. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 85 February 28, 2013 
9. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 88  January 9, 2014 
10. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 111 March 13, 2014 
11. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 120 April 10, 2014 
12. A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 7 July 18, 2014 
13. A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 35 October 9, 2014 
14. A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 50 December 16, 2014 
15. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.102 May 21, 2015 
16. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.66 April 28, 2016 
17. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 9 October 20, 2016 
18. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 5 August 29, 2018 
19. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 28 April 03, 2020 
20. A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 14 September 15, 2022
