[Page 1]
भारतीय ररज़र्व बैंक  
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
www.rbi.org.in 
 
RBI/FED/2018-19/67 
FED Master Direction No.5/2018-19                                                                                                                                                                                 
March 26, 2019 
(Updated as on February 16, 2026) 
(Updated as on January 12, 2026) 
(Updated as on December 22, 2023) 
(Updated as on September 30, 2022)  
(Updated as on August 01, 2022) 
(Updated as on June 09, 2022) 
(Updated as on December 10, 2021) 
(Updated as on April 12, 2021) 
(Updated as on August 08, 2019) 
 
To 
All Authorised Dealer Category – I Banks and Authorised Banks 
Madam / Dear Sir, 
Master Direction - External Commercial Borrowings, Trade Credits and Structured 
Obligations 
Transactions on account of External Commercial Borrowings (ECB) and Trade Credit  (TC) are 
governed by sub -section 2 of section 6 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 
(FEMA). Various provisions in respect of these two types of borrowing are included in the 
following Regulations framed under FEMA: 
i. Foreign Exchange Management (Borrowing and Lending) Regulations, 2018, notified 
vide  Notification No. FEMA 3R/2018-RB dated December 17, 2018, as amended from time 
to time; and 
ii. Foreign Exchange Management (Guarantees) Regulations, 20 26, notified vide 
Notification No. FEMA 8(R)/2026-RB dated January 6, 2026, as amended from time to 
time.1 
2. Within the contours of the Regulations, Reserve Bank of India also issues directions to 
Authorised Persons under Section 11 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), 1999. 
These directions lay down the modalities as to how the foreign exchange business has to be 
conducted by the Authorised Persons with their customer s/constituents with a view to 
implementing the regulations framed. 
3. Instructions issued in respect of External Commercial Borrowings and Trade Credits have 
been compiled in this Master Direction  in supersession of earlier directions contained in

[Page 2]
2 
 
Master Direction - External Commercial Borrowings, Trade Credit, Borrowing and Lending in 
Foreign Currency by Authorised Dealers and Persons other than Authorised Dealers, dated 
January 1, 2016, as amended from time to time. The said Master Direction can, however, be 
accessed using the link provided. The list of underlying notifications/circulars which form the 
basis of this Master Direction is furnished in the  Appendix. Reporting instructions can be 
found in Master Direction on reporting (Master Direction No. 18 dated January 01, 2016 , as 
amended from time to time).  
4. It may be noted that, whenever necessary, Reserve Bank shall issue directions to 
Authorised Persons through A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars in regard to any change in the 
Regulations or the manner in which relative transactions are to be conducted by the 
Authorised Persons with their customers/ constituents and/ or amend the  Master 
Direction issued herewith. This Master Direction has been issued under sections 10(4) and 
11(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and are without prejudice 
to permissions/ approvals, if any, required under any other law. 
Yours faithfully 
(Dr. Aditya Gaiha) 
Chief General Manager-in-Charge

[Page 3]
3 
 
 
INDEX 
Para. 
No. 
                                                              Particulars 
1 [Deleted] 
 Part I - External Commercial Borrowings Framework 
2 [Deleted] 
2.1 [Deleted] 
2.2 [Deleted] 
3 [Deleted] 
4 [Deleted] 
4.1 [Deleted] 
4.2 [Deleted] 
5 [Deleted] 
6 [Deleted] 
6.1 [Deleted] 
6.2 [Deleted] 
6.3 [Deleted] 
6.4 [Deleted] 
6.5 [Deleted] 
7 [Deleted] 
7.1 [Deleted] 
7.2 [Deleted] 
7.3 [Deleted] 
7.4 [Deleted] 
7.5 [Deleted] 
7.6 [Deleted] 
8 [Deleted] 
8.1 [Deleted] 
8.2 [Deleted] 
9 [Deleted] 
10 [Deleted] 
11 [Deleted] 
12 [Deleted] 
 Part II – Trade Credits Framework 
13 Introduction 
14 Trade Credits Framework 
15 Trade Credits in SEZ/FTWZ/DTA 
16 Security for trade credits 
17 Reporting requirements 
17.1 Monthly Reporting 
17.2 [Deleted] 
18 Role of Authorised Dealer banks 
 Part III – Structured Obligations 
19 [Deleted] 
20 [Deleted]

[Page 4]
4 
 
 
ACRONYMS 
 
AD:  Authorised Dealer 
AIC:  All-in-Cost 
AMP:  Average Maturity Period 
2ARR:                  Alternative Reference Rate 
CIRP:                 Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process 
DSIM:  Department of Statistics and Information Management 
DTA:  Domestic Tariff Area 
ECA:                  Export Credit Agency 
ECB:  External Commercial Borrowings 
3FATF:  Financial Action Task Force   
FCCB:  Foreign Currency Convertible Bond 
FCEB:  Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bond 
FCY:                   Foreign Currency 
FDI:  Foreign Direct Investment 
FEMA:               Foreign Exchange Management Act 
FTWZ:               Free Trade and Warehousing Zone 
IFSC:                  International Financial Services Centre 
INR:  Indian Rupee 
LIBOR:              London Interbank Offered Rate 
LIN:                   Loan Identity Number 
LRN:  Loan Registration Number 
NBFC:  Non-Banking Financial Company 
RBI:  Reserve Bank of India 
SEBI:                  Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEZ:  Special Economic Zone 
SIDBI:  Small Industries Development Bank of India 
TC:                     Trade Credit 
USD:  United States Dollar 
XBRL:                 eXtensible Business Reporting Language

[Page 5]
5 
 
 
1 to 1.17 4[Deleted] 
 
Part I – EXTERNAL COMMERCIAL BORROWINGS FRAMEWORK  
2 to 12 5[Deleted] 
 
PART II – TRADE CREDITS FRAMEWORK 
13.  Introduction:  Trade Credits (TC) refer to the credits extended by the overseas supplier, 
bank, financial institution and other permitted recognised lenders for maturity, as prescribed 
in this framework, for imports of capital/non -capital goods permissible under the Fore ign 
Trade Policy of the Government of India. Depending on the source of finance, such TCs include 
suppliers’ credit and buyers’ credit from recognised lenders. 
14. Trade Credits Framework: TC for imports into India can be raised in any freely convertible 
foreign currency (FCY denominated TC) or Indian Rupee (INR denominated TC), as per the 
framework given in the table below: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Parameters FCY denominated TC INR denominated TC 
i Forms of TC Buyers’ Credit and Suppliers’ Credit. 
ii Eligible borrower Person resident in India acting as an importer. 
iii Amount under 
automatic route 
Up to USD 150 million or equivalent per import transaction for 
oil/gas refining & marketing, airline and shipping companies. For 
others, up to USD 50 million or equivalent per import transaction. 
iv Recognised 
lenders 
1. For suppliers’ credit: Supplier of goods located outside India. 
2. For buyers’ credit: Banks, financial institutions, foreign equity 
holder(s) located outside India and financial institution s in IFSCs 
located in India. 
Note: Participation of Indian banks and non -banking financial 
companies (operating from IFSCs) as lenders will be subject to the 
prudential guidelines issued by the concerned regulatory 
departments of the Reserve Bank. Further,  foreign 
branches/subsidiaries of Indian banks are permitted as 
recognised lenders only for FCY TC. 
v Period of TC The period of TC, reckoned from the date of shipment, shall be 
up to three years for import of capital goods. For non -capital 
goods, this period shall be up to one year or the operating cycle 
whichever is less. For shipyards / shipbuilders, the period of TC 
for import of non-capital goods can be up to three years.  
vi All-in-cost ceiling 
per annum 
6Benchmark Rate plus 350 bps  
spread: For existing TCs linked to 
LIBOR whose benchmarks are 
changed to ARR. 
Benchmark rate plus 250 
bps spread.

[Page 6]
6 
 
 
Benchmark rate plus 300 bps 
spread: For new TCs. 
vii Exchange rate Change of currency of FCY TC into 
INR TC can be at the exchange rate 
prevailing on the date of the 
agreement between the parties 
concerned for such change or at 
an exchange rate, which is less 
than the rate prevailing on the 
date of agreement, if consented to 
by the TC lender. 
For conversion to Rupee , 
exchange rate shall be the 
rate prevailing on the date 
of settlement. 
viii Hedging 
provision 
The entities raising TC are required 
to follow the guidelines for 
hedging, if any, issued by the 
concerned sectoral or prudential 
regulator in respect of foreign 
currency exposure.  Such entities 
shall have a board approved risk 
management policy. 
The overseas investors are 
eligible to hedge their 
exposure in Rupee through 
permitted derivative 
products with AD Category I 
banks in India. The investors 
can also access the 
domestic market through 
branches / subsidiaries of 
Indian banks abroad or 
branches of foreign banks 
with Indian presence on a 
back to back basis. 
ix Change of 
currency of 
borrowing 
Change of currency of TC from one 
freely convertible foreign currency 
to any other freely convertible 
foreign currency as well as to INR 
is freely permitted. 
Change of currency from 
INR to any freely convertible 
foreign currency is not 
permitted. 
15. Trade Credits in SEZ/FTWZ/DTA:  
15.1. TC can be raised by a unit or a developer in a SEZ  including FTWZ for purchase of non-
capital and capital goods within an SEZ including FTWZ or from a different SEZ including FTWZ 
subject to compliance with parameters given at paragraph 14 above. Further, an entity in DTA 
is also allowed to raise TC for purchase of capit al / non -capital goods from a unit or a 
developer of a SEZ including FTWZ.  
15.2. TC transactions in respect of SEZs and DTAs as permitted above should also be in 
compliance with applicable provisions of SEZ Act, 2005 as amended from time to time. For TC 
transactions related to SEZ, date of transfer of ownership of goods will be treated as TC date. 
As there will be no bill of entry for sale transactions within SEZ, the inter unit receipt 
generated through NSDL can be treated as an import document.

[Page 7]
7 
 
16. Security for Trade Credit: The provisions regarding security for raising TC are as under: 
16.1. Bank guarantees may be given by the ADs, on behalf of the importer, in favour of 
overseas lender of TC not exceeding the amount of TC. Period of such guarantee cannot be 
beyond the maximum permissible period for TC. TC may also be secured by overseas 
guarantee issued by foreign banks /overseas branches of Indian banks. Issuance of such 
guarantees i.e. guarantees by Indian banks and their branches/subsidiaries located outside 
India will be subject to compliance with the provisions contained in Department of Banking 
Regulation Master Circular No.DBR.No.Dir. BC.11/13.03.00/2015-16 dated July 1, 2015  on 
“Guarantees and Co-acceptances”, as amended from time to time.  
16.2. For the purpose of raising TC, the importer may also offer security of movable assets 
(including financial assets) / immovable assets (excluding land in SEZs) / corporate or personal 
guarantee for raising trade credit. ADs  may permit creation of charge on security offered / 
accept corporate or personal guarantee, duly ensuring that: 
i. there exists a security clause in the loan agreement requiring the importer to create 
charge, in favour of overseas lender / security trustee on immovable assets / movable 
assets / financial securities / issuance of corporate and / or personal guarantee;  
ii. No objection certificate, wherever necessary, from the existing lenders in India has 
been obtained;  
iii. such arrangement is co-terminus with underlying TC;  
iv. In case of invocation, the total payments towards guarantee should not exceed the 
dues towards trade credit; and 
v. Creation/ enforcement / invocation of charge shall be as per the provisions contained 
in Foreign Exchange Management (Acquisition and Transfer of Immovable Property in 
India) Regulations, 2018 and Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of 
Security by a Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2017, as amended from time 
to time , or any other relative Regulations framed under the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 and should also comply with  applicable FDI/FII/SEZ policy/ 
rules/ guidelines.  
Note: The directions on issuance of corporate or personal guarantee mentioned under this 
provision shall come into force from the date of publication, in the Official Gazette, of the 
relative Regulations issued under FEMA. 
17. Reporting requirements:  TC transactions are subject to the following reporting 
requirements: 
17.1. Monthly reporting:  AD Category I banks are required to furni sh details of TCs like  
drawal, utilisation, and repayment of TC approved by all its branches, in a consolidated 
statement, during a month, in Form TC to the Director, Division of International Trade and 
Finance, Department of Economic Policy and Research, RBI, Central Office, Fort, Mumbai – 
400 001 (and in MS-Excel file through email) so as to reach not later than 10th of the following 
month. Each TC may be given a unique identification number by the AD bank. Format of Form

[Page 8]
8 
 
TC is available at Annex IV of Part V of Master Directions – Reporting under Foreign Exchange 
Management Act dated January 1, 2016, as amended from time to time. 
Note: Suppliers’ credit beyond 180 days and up to one year/three years from the date of 
shipment for non-capital/capital goods respectively, should also be reported by the AD banks. 
Further, permissions granted by the AD banks/Regional offices of Reserve Bank for settlement 
of delayed import dues in terms of paragraphs B.5 and C.2 of the Master Direction on Import 
of Goods and Services dated January 1, 2016 , as amended from time to time, should also be 
reported by the AD banks as per the aforesaid procedure.. 
17.2. [Deleted]7 
18. Role of ADs: While the primarily responsibility of ensuring adherence to the TC policy lies 
with the importer, the ADs are also expected to ensure compliance with applicable 
parameters of the trade credit policy / provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 
by their constituents. As the Reserve Bank has not prescribed any format or manner in which 
TC arrangements / loan agreements are to be documented, ADs may consider any document 
to satisfy themselves with the underlying TC arrangement. ADs should ensure that there is no 
double financing on account of these transactions between a unit or a developer in a SEZ 
including FTWZ for purchase of non-capital and capital goods within an SEZ including FTWZ or 
from a different SEZ including FTWZ. ADs should also ensure that for import of non -capital 
goods, the period of TC, as applicable, is lower of operating cycle or one year (three years for 
shipyards / shipbuilders). 
 
PART III – STRUCTURED OBLIGATIONS 
19. [Deleted]8 
 
20. [Deleted]9

[Page 9]
9 
 
APPENDIX 
 
List of Notifications/Circulars which have been consolidated in this Master Direction 
 
Sr. No. Notification Date 
1 FEMA 3R/2018-RB  December 17, 2018 
102 FEMA 8(R)/2026-RB January 6, 2026 
 
Sr. No. Circular Date 
1 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 17 January 16, 2019 
2 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 18 February 08, 2019 
3 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 23 March 13, 2019 
114 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 04 July 30, 2019 
125 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 01 April 07, 2021 
136 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 December 08, 2021 
147 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 11 August 01, 2022 
158 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 16 September 30, 2022 
9 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 January 12, 2026 
10 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 22 February 16, 2026 
 
 
 
1 Foreign Exchange Management (Guarantees) Regulations, 2000  superseded with Foreign Exchange 
Management (Guarantees) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f January 10, 2026. 
 
2 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated December 08, 2021. 
 
3 Deleted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated December 08, 2021 . Deleted portion read as “ EURIBOR: 
Euro Interbank Offered Rate”. 
 
4 Deleted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 22 dated February 16, 2026. Deleted portion read as 
“ 1. Important terms used: 
1.1. All-in-Cost: It includes rate of interest, other fees, expenses, charges, guarantee fees, ECA charges, whether 
paid in foreign currency or INR but will not include commitment fees and withholding tax payable in INR. In the 
case of fixed rate loans, the swap cost plus spread should not be more than the floating rate plus the applicable 
spread. Additionally, for FCCBs, the issue related expenses should not exceed 4 per cent of the issue size and in 
case of private placement, these expenses should not exceed 2 per cent of the issue size, etc.  Under TC 
Framework, all-in-cost shall include rate of interest, other fees, expenses, charges, guarantee fees whether paid 
in foreign currency or INR. Withholding tax payable in INR shall not be a part of all-in-cost. Various components 
of all-in-cost have to be paid by the borrower without taking recourse to the drawdown of ECB/TC, i.e., ECB/TC 
proceeds cannot be used for payment of interest/charges. 
1.2. Approval route:  Under the ECB/TC framework, ECB/TC can be raised either under the au tomatic route or 
under the approval route. Under the approval route, the prospective borrowers are required to send their 
requests to the Reserve Bank through their AD Banks for examination.  
1.3. Authorised dealer: Means a person authorised as an authorised dealer under subsection (1) of section 10 of 
the FEMA, 1999 (42 of 1999).

[Page 10]
10 
 
 
1.4. Automatic route: For the automatic route, the cases are examined by the Authorised Dealer Category-I (AD 
Category-I) banks.   
1.5. Benchmark rate: Benchmark rate in case of FCY ECB/TC refers to any widely accepted interbank rate or ARR 
of 6-month tenor, applicable to the currency of borrowing. Benchmark rate in case of Rupee denominated ECB/TC 
will be prevailing yield of the Government of India securities of corresponding maturity. 
1.6. Designated Authorised Dealer Category I Bank:  It is the bank branch which is designated by the ECB/TC 
borrower for meeting the reporting requirements including obtaining of the LRN/LIN from the Reserve Bank, 
exercising the delegated powers under these guidelines and monitoring of ECB/TC transactions.  
1.7. ECB liability -Equity ratio: For the purpose of ECB liability -equity ratio, ECB amount will include all 
outstanding amount of all ECB (other than INR denominated) and the proposed one (only outstanding ECB 
amounts in case of refinancing) while equity will include the paid-up capital and free reserves (including the share 
premium received in foreign currency) as per the latest audited balance sheet. Both ECB and equity amounts will 
be calculated with respect to the foreign equity holder. Where there is mo re than one foreign equity holder in 
the borrowing company, the portion of the share premium in foreign currency brought in by the lender(s) 
concerned shall only be considered for calculating the ratio. The ratio will be calculated as per latest audited 
balance sheet.  
1.8. FATF compliant country: A country that is a member of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) or a member 
of a FATF-Style Regional Body; and should not be a country identified in the public statement of the FATF as (i) A 
jurisdiction having a strategic Anti -Money Laundering or Combating the Financing of Terrorism deficiencies to 
which counter measures apply; or (ii) A jurisdiction that has not made sufficient progress in addressing the 
deficiencies or has not committed to an action plan de veloped with the Financial Action Task Force to address 
the deficiencies.  
1.9. Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCBs):  It refers to foreign currency denominated instruments which 
are issued in accordance with the Issue of Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds and Ordinary Shares (Through 
Depositary Receipt Mechanism) Scheme, 1993, as amended from time to time. Issuance of FCCBs shall also 
conform to other applicable regulations.  Further, FCCBs should be without any warrants attached. 
1.10. Fo reign Currency Exchangeable Bonds (FCEBs): It refers to foreign currency denominated instruments 
which are issued in accordance with the Issue of Foreign Currency Exchangeable Bonds Scheme, 2008, as 
amended from time to time. FCEBs  are exchangeable into eq uity share of another company, to be called the 
Offered Company, in any manner, either wholly, or partly or on the basis of any equity related warrants attached 
to debt instruments. Issuance of FCEBs shall also conform to other applicable regulations. 
1.11. Foreign Equity Holder: It means (a) direct foreign equity holder with minimum 25% direct equity holding in 
the borrowing entity, (b) indirect equity holder with minimum indirect equity holding of 51%, or (c) group 
company with common overseas parent.  
1.12. Infrastructure Sector:  It has the same meaning as given in the Harmonised Master List of Infrastructure 
sub-sectors, approved by Government of India vide Notification F. No. 13/06/2009 -INF, as amended / updated 
from time to time.  For the purpose of ECB, “Exploration, Mining and R efinery” sectors will be deemed as in the 
infrastructure sector. 
1.13. Infrastructure Space Companies: Companies in the infrastructure sector, Non-Banking Finance Companies 
undertaking infrastructure financing, Holding Companies/ Core Investment Companies undertaking 
infrastructure financing, Housing Finance Companies regulated by National Housing Bank and Port Trusts 
(constituted under the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 or Indian Ports Act, 1908). 
1.14. IOSCO Compliant Country: A country whose securities market regulator is a signatory to the International 
Organisation of Securities Commission's (IOSCO’s) Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (Appendix A 
Signatories) or a signatory to bilateral Memorandum of Understanding wit h the SEBI for information sharing 
arrangements. 
1.15. Person Resident in India: It shall have the same meanings as assigned to them in Sections 2(v) of the FEMA, 
1999. 
1.16. Real Estate Activities:  Any real estate activity involving own or leased property, for buying, selling and 
renting of commercial and residential properties or land and also includes activities either on a fee or contract 
basis assigning real estate agents for intermediating in buying, selling, letting or managing real estate. However,

[Page 11]
11 
 
 
this would not include, (i) construction/development of industrial parks/integrated townships/SEZ (ii) 
purchase/long term leasing of industrial land as part of new project/modernisation of expansion of existing units 
and (iii) any activity under ‘infrastructure sector’ definition. 
1.17. Special Economic Zone & Free Trade Warehousing Zone:  They shall have the same meaning as assigned 
to them in Special Economic Zones Act 2005, as amended from time to time. 
 
5 Deleted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 22 dated February 16, 2026. Deleted portion read as: 
“ 2. Introduction:  External Commercial Borrowings are commercial loans raised by eligible resident entities from 
recognised non-resident entities and should conform to parameters such as minimum maturity, permitted and 
non-permitted end-uses, maximum all-in-cost ceiling, etc. The parameters given below apply in totality and not 
on a standalone basis.  
2.1. ECB Framework:  The framework for raising loans through ECB (hereinafter referred to as the ECB 
Framework) comprises the following two options: 
Sr. 
No. 
Parameters FCY denominated ECB INR denominated ECB 
i Currency of 
borrowing 
Any freely convertible Foreign Currency Indian Rupee (INR) 
ii Forms of ECB Loans including bank loans; floating/ fixed 
rate notes/ bonds/ debentures (other than 
fully and compulsorily convertible 
instruments); Trade credits beyond 3 years; 
FCCBs; FCEBs and Financial Lease. 
Loans includ ing bank loans; floating/ 
fixed rate notes/bonds/ debentures/ 
preference shares (other than fully and 
compulsorily convertible instruments); 
Trade credits beyond 3 years; and 
Financial Lease. Also, plain vanilla Rupee 
denominated bonds issued overseas, 
which can be either placed privately or 
listed on exchanges as per host country 
regulations. 
iii Eligible 
borrowers 
All entities eligible to receive FDI. Further, 
the following entities are also eligible to 
raise ECB: 
i. Port Trusts; 
ii. Units in SEZ; 
iii. SIDBI; and 
iv. EXIM Bank of India. 
 
a) All entities eligible to raise FCY ECB; 
and 
b) Registered entities engaged in 
micro-finance activities, viz., 
registered Not for Profit companies, 
registered societies/trusts/ 
cooperatives and Non -Government 
Organisations. 
iv Recognised 
lenders 
The lender should be resident of FATF or IOSCO compliant country, including on transfer 
of ECB. However, 
a) Multilateral and Regional Financial Institutions where India is a member country 
will also be considered as recognised lenders; 
b) Individuals as lenders can only be permitted if they are foreign equity holders or for 
subscription to bonds/debentures listed abroad; and 
c) Foreign branches / subsidiaries of Indian banks are permitted as recognised lenders 
only for FCY ECB (except FCCBs and FCEBs). Foreign branches / subsidiaries of Indian 
banks, subject to applicable prudential norms, can participate as 
arrangers/underwriters/market-makers/traders for Rupee denominated Bonds

[Page 12]
12 
 
 
issued overseas. However, underwriting by foreign branches/subsidiari es of Indian 
banks for issuances by Indian banks will not be allowed.  
v Minimum 
Average 
Maturity 
Period 
(MAMP) 
MAMP for ECB will be 3 years. Call and put options, if any, shall not be exercisable prior 
to completion of minimum average maturity. However, for the specific categories  
mentioned below, the MAMP will be as prescribed therein: 
Sr.No. Category MAMP 
(a) ECB raised by manufacturing companies up to USD 50 
million or its equivalent per financial year. 
1 year 
(b) ECB raised from foreign equity holder for working capital 
purposes, general corporate purposes or for repayment of 
Rupee loans 
5 years 
(c) ECB raised for  
(i) working capital purposes or general corporate purposes 
(ii) on-lending by NBFCs for working capital purposes or 
general corporate purposes 
10 years 
(d) ECB raised for  
(i) repayment of Rupee loans availed domestically for 
capital expenditure 
(ii) on-lending by NBFCs for the same purpose  
7 years 
(e) ECB raised for  
(i) repayment of Rupee loans availed domestically for 
purposes other than capital expenditure 
(ii) on-lending by NBFCs for the same purpose  
10 years 
for the categories mentioned at (b) to (e) – 
(i) ECB cannot be raised from foreign branches / subsidiaries of Indian banks 
(ii) the prescribed MAMP will have to be strictly complied with under all 
circumstances. 
 
vi All-in-cost 
ceiling per 
annum 
Benchmark Rate plus 550 bps spread: For 
existing ECBs linked to LIBOR whose 
benchmarks are changed to ARR. 
 
Benchmark rate plus 500 bps spread: For 
new ECBs. 
Benchmark rate plus 450 bps spread. 
  All-in-cost ceiling has been temporarily increased by 100 bps for ECBs raised till 
December 31, 2022. The enhanced all -in-cost ceiling shall be available only to eligible 
borrowers of investment grade rating from Indian Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs). Other 
eligible borrowers may raise ECB within the existing all-in-cost ceiling as hitherto. 
vii Other costs Prepayment charge/ Penal interest, if any, for default or breach of covenants, should 
not be more than 2 per cent over and above the contracted rate of interest on the 
outstanding principal amount and will be outside the all-in-cost ceiling. 
viii End-uses 
(Negative 
list) 
The negative list, for which the ECB proceeds cannot be utilised, would include the 
following: 
a) Real estate activities. 
b) Investment in capital market. 
c) Equity investment. 
d) Working capital purposes, except in case of ECB mentioned at v(b) and v(c) above.   
e) General corporate purposes, except in case of ECB mentioned at v(b) and v(c) 
above.

[Page 13]
13 
 
 
f) Repayment of Rupee loans, except in case of ECB mentioned at v(b), v(d) and v(e) 
above. 
g) On-lending to entities for the above activities, except in case of   ECB raised by 
NBFCs as given at v(c), v(d) and v(e) above. 
ix Exchange 
rate 
Change of currency of FCY ECB into INR ECB 
can be at the exchange rate prevailing on 
the date of the agreement for such change 
between the parties concerned or at an 
exchange rate, which is less than the rate 
prevailing on the date of the agreement, if 
consented to by the ECB lender. 
For conversion to Rupee , the exchange 
rate shall be the rate prevailing on the 
date of settlement. 
x Hedging 
provision 
The entities raising ECB are required to 
follow the guidelines for hedging issued, if 
any, by the concerned sectoral or 
prudential regulator in respect of foreign 
currency exposure. Infrastructure space 
companies shall have a Board approved 
risk management policy. Further, such 
companies are required to mandatorily 
hedge 70 per cent of their ECB exposure in 
case the average maturity of the ECB is less 
than 5 years. The designated AD Category-
I bank shall verify that 70 per cent hedging 
requirement is complied with during the 
currency of the ECB and report the position 
to RBI through Form ECB 2. The following 
operational aspects with respect to 
hedging should be ensured: 
a. Coverage: The ECB borrower wil l be 
required to cover the principal as well 
as the coupon through financial 
hedges. The financial hedge for all 
exposures on account of ECB should 
start from the time of each such 
exposure (i.e. the day the liability is 
created in the books of the borrower). 
b. Tenor and rollover: A minimum tenor 
of one year for the financial hedge 
would be required with periodic 
rollover, duly ensuring that the 
exposure on account of ECB is not 
unhedged at any point during the 
currency of the ECB. 
c. Natural Hedge: Natural hedge, in lieu 
of financial hedge, will be considered 
only to the extent of offsetting 
projected cash flows / revenues in 
matching currency, net of all other 
projected outflows. For this purpose, 
an ECB may be considered naturally 
Overseas investors are eligible to hedge 
their exposure in Rupee through 
permitted derivative products with AD 
Category I banks in India. The investors 
can also access the domestic market 
through branches / subsidiaries of Indian 
banks abroad or branches of foreign 
banks with Indian presence on a back to 
back basis.

[Page 14]
14 
 
 
hedged if the offsetting exposure has 
the maturity/cash flow within the 
same accounting year. Any other 
arrangements/ structures, where 
revenues are indexed to foreign 
currency will not be considered as a 
natural hedge. 
xi Change of 
currency of 
borrowing 
Change of currency of ECB from one freely 
convertible foreign currency to any other 
freely convertible foreign currency as well 
as to INR is freely permitted. 
Change of currency from INR to any 
freely convertible foreign currency is not 
permitted. 
 
Note: The ECB framework is not applicable in respect of investments in Non-Convertible Debentures in India made 
by Registered Foreign Portfolio Investors. Lending and borrowing under the ECB framework by Indian banks and 
their branches/subsidiaries outside India will be subject to prudential guidelines issued by the Department of 
Banking Regulation of the Reserve Bank. Further, other entities raising ECB are required to follow the guidelines 
issued, if any, by the concerned sectoral or prudential regulator. 
2.2. Limit and leverage:   Under the aforesaid framework, a ll eligible borrowers can raise ECB up to USD 750 
million or equivalent per financial year under the automatic route. Further, in case of FCY denominated ECB raised 
from direct foreign equity holder, ECB liability -equity ratio for ECB raised under the automatic route cannot 
exceed 7:1. However, this ratio will not be applicable if the outstanding amount of all ECB, including the proposed 
one, is up to USD 5 million or its equivalent. Further, the borrowing entities will also be governed by the guidelines 
on debt equity ratio, issued, if any, by the sectoral or prudential regulator concerned. 
The automatic route limit stands increased from USD 750 million or equivalent to USD 1.5 billion or equivalent.  
This relaxation is available for ECBs to be raised till December 31, 2022. 
3. Issuance of Guarantee, etc. by Indian banks and Financial Institutions: Issuance of any type of guarantee by 
Indian banks, All India Financial Institutions and NBFCs relating to ECB is not permitted. Further, financial 
intermediaries (viz., Indian banks , All India Financial Institutions, or NBFCs) shall not invest in FCCBs/ FCEBs in 
any manner whatsoever.  
 
4. Parking of ECB proceeds: ECB proceeds are permitted to be parked abroad as well as domestically in the 
manner given below: 
 
4.1. Parking of ECB proceeds abroad: ECB proceeds meant only for foreign currency expenditure can be parked 
abroad pending utilisation. Till utilisation, these funds can be invested in the following liquid assets (a) deposits 
or Certificate of Deposit or other products offered by banks rated not less than AA (-) by Standard and Poor/Fitch 
IBCA or Aa3 by Moody’s; (b) Treasury bills and other monetary instruments of one-year maturity having minimum 
rating as indicated above and (c) deposits with foreign branches/subsidiaries of Indian banks abroad.  
 
4.2. Parking of ECB proceeds domestically:  ECB proceeds meant for Rupee expenditure should be repatriated 
immediately for credit to their Rupee accounts with AD Category I banks in India. ECB borrowers are also allowed 
to park ECB proceeds in term deposits with AD Category I banks in India for a maximum period of 12 months 
cumulatively.  These term deposits should be kept in unencumbered position. 
 
To provide relief to  ECB borrowers affected by the COVID- 19 pandemic, as a one time measure, with effect from  
April 07, 2021, unutilised ECB proceeds drawn down on or before March 01, 2020 can be parked in term deposits 
with AD Category-I banks in India prospectively, for an additional period up to March 01, 2022.

[Page 15]
15 
 
 
5. Procedure of raising ECB: All ECB can be raised under the automatic route if they conform to the parameters 
prescribed under this framework . For approval route cases, the borrowers may approach the RBI with an 
application in prescribed format (Form ECB) for examination through their AD Category I bank. Such cases shall 
be considered keeping in view the overall guidelines, macroeconomic situation and merits of the specific 
proposals. ECB proposals received in the Reserve Bank above certain threshold limit (refixed from time to time) 
would be placed before the Empowered Committee set up by the Reserve Bank. The Empowered Committee will 
have external as well as internal members and the Reserve Bank will take a final decision in the cases taking into 
account recommendation of the Empowered Committee. Entities desirous to raise ECB under the automatic route 
may approach an AD Category I bank with their proposal along with duly filled in Form ECB.  
 
6. Reporting Requirements: Borrowings under ECB Framework are subject to following reporting requirements 
apart from any other specific reporting required under the framework: 
 
6.1. Loan Registration Number (LRN): Any draw-down in respect of an ECB should happen only after obtaining 
the LRN from the Reserve Bank. To obtain the LRN, borrowers are required to submit duly certified Form ECB, 
which also contains terms and conditions of the ECB, in duplicate to the designated AD Category I bank. In turn, 
the AD Category I bank will forward one copy to the Director, Reserve Bank of India, Department of Statistics and 
Information Management, External Commercial Borrowings Division, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Mumbai – 400 051 
(Contact numbers 022-26572513 and 022-26573612).  Copies of loan agreement for raising ECB are not required 
to be submitted to the Reserve Bank. 
 
6.2. Changes in terms and conditions of ECB : Changes in ECB parameters in consonance with the ECB norms, 
including reduced repayment by mutual agreement between the lender and borrower, should be reported to the 
DSIM through revised Form ECB at the earliest, in any case not later than 7 days from the changes effected. While 
submitting revised Form ECB the changes should be specifically mentioned in the communication.  
 
6.3. Monthly Reporting of actual transactions:  The borrowers are required to report actual ECB transactions 
through Form ECB 2 Return through the AD Category I bank on monthly basis so as to reach DSIM within seven 
working days from the close of month to which it relates. Changes, if any, in ECB parameters should also be 
incorporated in Form ECB 2 Return.  
  
6.4. Late Submission Fee (LSF) for delay in reporting:  
6.4.1. Any borrower, who is otherwise in compliance of ECB guidelines, can regularise the delay in reporting of 
drawdown of ECB proceeds before obtaining LRN or delay in submission of Form ECB 2 returns, by payment of 
late submission fees in accordance wit h Part XIII of Master Direction – Reporting under Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999. 
Deleted 
6.4.2. Deleted  
 
6.5. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Untraceable Entities: The following SOP has to be followed by 
designated AD Category-I banks in case of untraceable entities who are found to be in contravention of reporting 
provisions for ECB by failing to submit prescribed return(s) under the ECB framew ork, either physically or 
electronically, for past eight quarters or more. 
i. Definition: Any borrower who has raised ECB will be treated as ‘untraceable entity’, if 
entity/auditor(s)/director(s)/ promoter(s) of entity are not reachable/responsive/reply in  negative over 
email/letters/phone for a period of not less than two quarters with documented communication/ reminders 
numbering 6 or more and it fulfills both of the following conditions:

[Page 16]
16 
 
 
a) Entity not found to be operative at the registered office address a s per records available with the AD 
Bank or not found to be operative during the visit by the officials of the AD Bank or any other agencies 
authorised by the AD bank for the purpose; 
b) Entities have not submitted Statutory Auditor’s Certificate for last two years or more; 
ii. Action: The followings actions are to be undertaken in respect of ‘untraceable entities’: 
a) File Revised Form ECB, if required, and last Form ECB 2 Return without certification from company with 
‘UNTRACEABLE ENTITY’ written in bold on top. The outstanding amount will be treated as written -off 
from external debt liability of the country but may be retained by the lender in its books for recovery 
through judicial/ non-judicial means; 
b) No fresh ECB application by the entity should be examined/processed by the AD bank; 
c) Directorate of Enforcement should be informed whenever any entity is designated ‘UNTRACEABLE 
ENTITY’; and 
d) No inward remittance or debt servicing will be permitted under auto route. 
 
7. Powers delegated to AD Category I banks to deal with ECB cases: The designated AD Category I banks can 
approve any requests from the borrowers for changes in respect of ECB, except for FCCBs/FCEBs,  duly ensuring 
that the changed conditions, including change in name of borrower/lender, transfer of ECB and any other 
parameters, comply with extant ECB norms and are with the consent of lender(s). Further, the following can also 
be undertaken under the automatic route: 
7.1. Change of the AD Category I bank: AD Category I bank can be changed subject to obtaining no objection 
certificate from the existing AD Category I bank.   
7.2. Cancellation of LRN:  The designated AD Category I banks may directly approach DSIM for cancellation of 
LRN for ECB contracted, subject to ensuring t hat no draw down against the said LRN has taken place and the 
monthly ECB-2 returns till date in respect of the allotted LRN have been submitted to DSIM. 
7.3. Refinancing of existing ECB: Refinancing of existing ECB by fresh ECB provided the outstanding maturity of 
the original borrowing (weighted outstanding maturity in case of multiple borrowings) is not reduced and all-in-
cost of fresh ECB is lower than the all -in-cost (weighted average cost in case of multiple borrowings) of existing 
ECB. Further, refinancing of ECB raised under the previous ECB frameworks may also be permitted, subject to 
additionally ensuring that the borrower is eligible to raise ECB under the extant framework. Raising of fresh ECB 
to part refinance the existing ECB is also permitted subject to same conditions. Indian banks are permitted to 
participate in refinancing of existing ECB, only for highly rated corporates (AAA) and for Maharatna/Navratna 
public sector undertakings.  
7.4. Conversion of ECB into equity: Conversion of ECB, including those which are matured but unpaid, into equity 
is permitted subject to the following conditions: 
i. The activity of the borrowing company is covered under the automatic route for FDI or Government approval 
is received, wherever applicable, for foreign equity participation as per extant FDI policy. 
ii. The conversion, which should be with the lender’s consent and without any additional cost, should not result 
in contravention of eligibility  and breach of applicable sector cap on the foreign equity holding under FDI 
policy; 
iii. Applicable pricing guidelines for shares are complied with; 
iv. In case of partial or full conversion of ECB into equity, the reporting to the Reserve Bank will be as under: 
a. For partial conversion, the converted portion is to be reported in Form FC -GPR prescribed for reporting 
of FDI flows, while monthly reporting to DSIM in Form ECB 2 Return will be with suitable remarks, viz., 
"ECB partially converted to equity". 
b. For full conversion, the entire portion is to be reported in Form FC-GPR, while reporting to DSIM in Form 
ECB 2 Return should be done with remarks “ECB fully converted to equity”. Subsequent filing of Form 
ECB 2 Return is not required.

[Page 17]
17 
 
 
c. For conversion of ECB into equity in phases, reporting through Form FC-GPR and Form ECB 2 Return will 
also be in phases.  
v. If the borrower concerned has availed of other credit facilities from the Indian banking system, including 
foreign branches/subsidiaries of Indian banks, the applicable prudential guidelines issued by the Department 
of Banking Regulation of Reserve Bank, including guidelines on restructuring are complied with;  
vi. Consent of other lenders, if any, to the same borrower is available or atleast information regarding  
conversions is exchanged with other lenders of the borrower. 
vii. For conversion of ECB dues into equity, the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the agreement between 
the parties concerned for such conversion or any lesser rate can be applied with a mutua l agreement with 
the ECB lender. It may be noted that the fair value of the equity shares to be issued shall be worked out with 
reference to the date of conversion only.  
 
7.5. Security for raising ECB: AD Category I banks are permitted to allow creation/c ancellation of charge on 
immovable assets, movable assets, financial securities and issue of corporate and/or personal guarantees in 
favour of overseas lender / security trustee, to secure the ECB to be raised/ raised by the borrower, subject to 
satisfying themselves that: 
i. the underlying ECB is in compliance with the extant ECB guidelines,  
ii. there exists a security clause in the Loan Agreement requiring the ECB borrower to create/cancel charge, 
in favour of overseas lender/security trustee, on immovable asse ts/movable assets/financial 
securities/issuance of corporate and/or personal guarantee, and  
iii. No objection certificate, as applicable, from the existing lenders in India has been obtained in case of 
creation of charge. 
Once the aforesaid stipulations are me t, the AD Category I bank may permit creation of charge on immovable 
assets, movable assets, financial securities and issue of corporate and/or personal guarantees, during the 
currency of the ECB with security co-terminating with underlying ECB, subject to the following: 
i. Creation of Charge on Immovable Assets: The arrangement shall be subject to the following: 
a) Such security shall be subject to provisions contained in the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Acquisition and Transfer of Immovable Property in India) Regulations, 2017, as amended from time to 
time. 
b) The permission should not be construed as a permission to acquire immovable asset (property) in India, 
by the overseas lender/ security trustee. 
c) In the event of enforcement / invocation of the charge, the immovable asset/ property will have to be 
sold only to a person resident in India and the sale proceeds shall be repatriated to liquidate the 
outstanding ECB. 
ii. Creation of Charge on Movable Assets: In the event of enforcement/ invocation of the charge, the claim of 
the lender, whether the lender takes over the movable asset or otherwise, will be restricted to the 
outstanding claim against the ECB. Encumbered movable assets may also be taken out of the country 
subject to getting ‘No Objection Certificate’ from domestic lender/s, if any. 
iii. Creation of Charge over Financial Securities: The arrangements may be permitted subject to the following: 
a) Pledge of shares of the borrowing company held by the promoters as well as in domestic associate 
companies of the bo rrower is permitted. Pledge on other financial securities, viz. bonds and 
debentures, Government Securities, Government Savings Certificates, deposit receipts of securities and 
units of the Unit Trust of India or of any mutual funds, standing in the name of ECB borrower/promoter, 
is also permitted. 
b) In addition, security interest over all current and future loan assets and all current assets including cash 
and cash equivalents, including Rupee accounts of the borrower with ADs in India, standing in the name 
of the borrower/promoter, can be used as security for ECB. The Rupee accounts of the 
borrower/promoter can also be in the form of escrow arrangement or debt service reserve account. 
c) In case of invocation of pledge, transfer of financial securities shall be  in accordance with the extant 
FDI/FII policy including provisions relating to sectoral cap and pricing as applicable read with the

[Page 18]
18 
 
 
Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person Resident outside India) 
Regulations, 2017, as amended from time to time. 
iv. Issue of Corporate or Personal Guarantee: The arrangement shall be subject to the following: 
a) A copy of Board Resolution for the issue of corporate guarantee for the company issuing such 
guarantee, specifying name of the officials author ised to execute such guarantees on behalf of the 
company or in individual capacity should be obtained. 
b) Specific requests from individuals to issue personal guarantee indicating details of the ECB should be 
obtained. 
c) Such security shall be subject to provis ions contained in the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Guarantees) Regulations, 2026, as amended from time to time. 
d) ECB can be credit enhanced / guaranteed / insured by overseas party/ parties only if it/ they fulfil/s the 
criteria of recognised lender under extant ECB guidelines. 
  
7.6. Additional Requirements: While exercising the delegated powers, the AD Category I banks should ensure 
that: 
i. The changes permitted are in conformity with the applicable ceilings / guidelines and the ECB continues to be 
in compliance with applicable guidelines. It should also be ensured that if the ECB borrower has availed of 
credit facilities from the Indian banking system, including foreign branches/subsidiaries of Indian banks, any 
extension of tenure of ECB (whether matured or not) shall be subject to applicable prudential guidelines issued 
by Department of Banking Regulation of Reserve Bank including guidelines on restructuring. 
ii. The changes in the terms and conditions of ECB allowed by the ADs under the powers delegated and / or 
changes approved by the Reserve Bank should be reported to the DSIM as given at paragraph 6.2 above. 
Further, these changes should also get reflected in the Form ECB 2 returns appropriately. 
 
8. Special Dispensations under the ECB framework:  
8.1. ECB facility for Oil Marketing Companies: Notwithstanding the provisions contained in paragraph 2.1 (viii), 
2.1 (x) and 2.2 above, Public Sector Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) can raise ECB for working capital purposes 
with minimum average maturity period of 3 years from all recognised lenders under the automatic route without 
mandatory hedging and individual limit requirements. The overall ceiling for such ECB shall be USD 10 billion or 
equivalent. However, OMCs should have a Board approved forex mark to market procedure and prudent risk 
management policy, for such ECB. All other provisions under the ECB framework will be applicable to such ECB. 
 
8.2. ECB facility for Startups:  AD Category -I banks are permitted to allow Startups to raise ECB under the 
automatic route as per the following framework:  
i. Eligibility: An entity recognised as a Startup by the Central Government as on date of raising ECB. 
ii. Maturity:  Minimum average maturity period will be 3 years. 
iii. Recognised lender: Lender / investor shall be a resident of a FATF compliant country. However, foreign 
branches/subsidiaries of Indian banks and overseas entity in which Indian entity has made overseas 
direct investment as per the extant Overseas Direct Investment Policy will not be considered as 
recognised lenders under this framework. 
iv. Forms: The borrowing can be in form of loans or non -convertible, optionally convertible or partially 
convertible preference shares.  
v. Currency: The borrowing should be denominated in any freely convertible currency or in Indian Rupees 
(INR) or a combination thereof. In case of borrowing in INR, the non-resident lender, should mobilise INR 
through swaps/outright sale undertaken through an AD Category-I bank in India.  
vi. Amount: The borrowing per Startup will be limited t o USD 3 million or equivalent per financial year 
either in INR or any convertible foreign currency or a combination of both.  
vii. All-in-cost: Shall be mutually agreed between the borrower and the lender. 
viii. End uses: For any expenditure in connection with the business of the borrower.

[Page 19]
19 
 
 
ix. Conversion into equity: Conversion into equity is freely permitted subject to Regulations applicable for 
foreign investment in Startups. 
x. Security: The choice of security to be provided to the lender is left to the borrowing entity. Security can 
be in the nature of movable, immovable, intangible assets (including patents, intellectual property 
rights), financial securities, etc. and shall comply with foreign direct investment / foreign portfolio 
investment / or any other norms applicable for foreign lenders / entities holding such securities. Further, 
issuance of corporate or personal guarantee is allowed. Guarantee issued by a non-resident(s) is allowed 
only if such parties qualify as lender under ECB for Startups. However, issuance o f guarantee, standby 
letter of credit, letter of undertaking or letter of comfort by Indian banks, all India Financial Institutions 
and NBFCs is not permitted. 
xi. Hedging: The overseas lender, in case of INR denominated ECB, will be eligible to hedge its INR exposure 
through permitted derivative products with AD Category – I banks in India. The lender can also access 
the domestic market through branches/ subsidiaries of Indian banks abroad or branches of foreign bank 
with Indian presence on a back to back basis. 
Note: Startups raising ECB in foreign currency, whether having natural hedge or not, are exposed to 
currency risk due to exchange rate movements and hence are advised to ensure that they have an 
appropriate risk management policy to manage potential risk arising out of ECB. 
xii. Conversion rate: In case of borrowing in INR, the foreign currency - INR conversion will be at the market 
rate as on the date of agreement. 
xiii. Other Provisions:  Other provisions like parking of ECB proceeds, reporting arrangements, powers 
delegated to AD banks, borrowing by entities under investigation, conversion of ECB into equity will be 
as included in the ECB framework. However, provisions on leverage ratio and ECB liability: Equity ratio 
will not be applicable. Further, the Start-ups as defined above [8.2. (i)] as well as other start-ups which 
do not comply with the aforesaid definition but are eligible to receive FDI, can also raise ECB under the 
general ECB route/framework.  
 
9. Borrowing by Entities under Investigation: All entities against which investigation / adjudication / appeal by 
the law enforcing agencies for violation of any of the provisions of the Regulations under FEMA pending, may 
raise ECB as per the applicable norms, if they are otherwise eligible, notwithstanding the pending investigations 
/ adjudications / appeals, without prejudice to the outcome of such investigations / adjudications / appeals. The 
borrowing entity shall inform about pendency of such investigation / adjudication / appeal to the AD Category-I 
bank / RBI as the case may be. Accordingly, in case of all applications where the borrowing entity has indicated 
about the pending investigations / adjudications / appeals, the AD Category I Banks / Reserve Bank while 
approving the proposal shall intimate the agencies concerned by endorsing a copy of the approval letter.  
10. ECB by entities under restructuring/ ECB facility for refinancing stressed assets: 
10.1. An entity which is under a restructuring scheme/ corporate insolvency resolution process can raise ECB only 
if specifically permitted under the resolution plan. 
10.2. 5Eligible corporate borrowers who have availed Rupee loans domestically for capital expenditure in 
manufacturing and infrastructure sector and which have been classified as SMA -2 or NPA can avail ECB for 
repayment of these loans under any one time settlement with lenders. Lender banks are also permitted to sell, 
through assignment, such loans to eligible ECB lenders, provided, the resultant external commercial borrowing 
complies with all -in-cost, minimum average ma turity period and other relevant norms of the ECB framework. 
Foreign branches/ overseas subsidiaries of Indian banks are not eligible to lend for the above purposes. The 
applicable MAMP will have to be strictly complied with under all circumstances. 
10.3. Eligible borrowers under the ECB framework, who are participating in the Corporate Insolvency Resolution 
Process under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 as resolution applicants, can raise ECB from all recognised 
lenders, except foreign branches/subsidiaries of Indian banks, for repayment of Rupee term loans of the target

[Page 20]
20 
 
 
company. Such ECB will be considered under the approval route, procedure of which is given at paragraph No. 5 
above. 
 
11. Dissemination of information: For providing greater transparency, information with regard to the name of 
the borrower, amount, purpose and maturity of ECB under both Automatic and Approval routes are put on the 
RBI’s website, on a monthly basis, with a lag of one month to which it relates. 
 
12. Compliance with the guidelines: The primary responsibility for ensuring that the borrowing is in compliance 
with the applicable guidelines is that of the borrower concerned. Any contravention of the applicable provisions 
of ECB guidelines will invite penal action under the FEMA. The designated AD Category I bank is also expected to 
ensure compliance with applicable ECB guidelines by their constituents.” 
 
6 Substituted vide A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated December 08, 2021 . Prior to substitution it read as 
“Benchmark rate plus 250 bps spread.” 
 
7 Deleted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated January 12, 2026. Prior to deletion, it read 
“17.2 Quarterly reporting: AD Category I banks are also required to furnish data on issuance of bank guarantees 
for TCs by all its branches, in a consolidated statement, at quarterly intervals on the CIMS p latform (URL: 
https://sankalan.rbi.org.in/). For clarification required, if any, AD banks may write to fedcoecbd@rbi.org.in of 
the Reserve Bank and/ or may be communic ated at Telephone No. 022-22601000 (extension- 2715). Format of 
this statement is also available at Annex V of Part V of Master Directions – Reporting under Foreign Exchange 
Management Act dated January 1, 2016, as amended from time to time.” 
 
8 Deleted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated January 12, 2026. Prior to deletion, it read: 
“19. Non-resident guarantee for domestic fund based and non-fund based facilities: Borrowing and lending in 
Indian Rupees between two residents does not attract any provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 
1999. In cases where a Rupee facility whic h is either fund based or non -fund based (such as letter of credit / 
guarantee / letter of undertaking / letter of comfort) or is in the form of derivative contract by residents that are 
subsidiaries of multinational companies, is guaranteed by a non -resident (non-resident group entity in case of 
derivative contracts), there is no transaction involving foreign exchange until the guarantee is invoked and the 
non-resident guarantor is required to meet the liability under the guarantee. The arrangements shall be with the 
following terms: 
i. The non-resident guarantor may discharge the liability by i) payment out of rupee balances held in India 
or ii) by remitting the funds to India or iii) by debit to his FCNR(B)/NRE account maintained with an AD 
bank in India. 
ii. In such cases, the non-resident guarantor may enforce his claim against the resident borrower to recover 
the amount and on recovery he may seek repatriation of the amount if the liability is discharged either 
by inward remittance or by debit to FCNR(B)/NRE a ccount. However, in case the liability is discharged 
by payment out of Rupee balances, the amount recovered can be credited to the NRO account of the 
non-resident guarantor. 
iii. General Permission is available to a resident, being a principal debtor to make pa yment to a person 
resident outside India, who has met the liability under a guarantee. 
iv. In cases where the liability is met by the non -resident out of funds remitted to India or by debit to his 
FCNR(B)/NRE account, the repayment may be made by credit to the  FCNR(B)/NRE/NRO account of the 
guarantor provided, the amount remitted/credited shall not exceed the rupee equivalent of the amount 
paid by the non-resident guarantor against the invoked guarantee. 
v. ” 
 
9 Deleted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated January 12, 2026. Prior to deletion, it read: 
“20. Facility of Credit Enhancement:  The facility of credit enhancement by eligible non -resident entities (viz. 
Multilateral financial institutions (such as, IFC, ADB, etc.) / regional financial institutions and Government owned 
(either wholly or partially) financial institutions, direct/ indirect equity holder) to domestic debt raised throu gh 
issue of capital market instruments, such as Rupee denominated bonds and debentures, is available to all 
borrowers eligible to raise ECB under automatic route subject to the following conditions: 
i. The underlying debt instrument should have a minimum average maturity of three years; 
ii. Prepayment and call/ put options are not permissible for such capital market instruments up to an 
average maturity period of 3 years;

[Page 21]
21 
 
 
iii. Guarantee fee and other costs in connection with credit enhancement will be restricted to a m aximum 
2 per cent of the principal amount involved; 
iv. On invocation of the credit enhancement, if the guarantor meets the liability and if the same is 
permissible to be repaid in foreign currency to the eligible non-resident entity, the all-in-cost ceilings, as 
applicable to the relevant maturity period of the TC/ECB, as per the extant guidelines, is applicable to 
the novated loan. 
v. In case of default and if the loan is serviced in Indian Rupees, the applicable rate of interest would be 
the coupon of the bonds or 250 bps over the prevailing secondary market yield of 5 years Government 
of India Security, as on the date of novation, whichever is higher; 
vi. NBFC-IFC proposing to avail of the credit enhancement facility should comply with the eligibility criteria 
and prudential norms laid down in the circular DNBS.PD.CC No.168/03.02.089/2009-10 dated February 
12, 2010 and in case the novated loan is designated in foreign currency, the IFC should hedge the entire 
foreign currency exposure; and 
vii. The reporting arrangements as applicable to the ECB would be applicable to the novated loans.” 
 
10 FEMA 8/2000-RB dated May 3, 2000 superseded vide FEMA 8(R)/2026-RB dated January 6, 2026. 
 
11 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 04 dated July 30, 2019. 
 
12 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 01 dated April 07, 2021. 
 
13 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated December 08, 2021. 
 
14 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 11 dated August 01, 2022.  
 
15 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 16 dated September 30, 2022.
