[Page 1]
1 
 
 
 
RBI/FED/2015-16/17 
FED Master Direction No.3/2015-16                                                                             
January 1, 2016 
(Updated as on June 24, 2026) 
(Updated as on May 06, 2026) 
(Updated as on April 2, 2026) 
(Updated as on November 28, 2025) 
(Updated as on May 29, 2024) 
(Updated as on February 29, 2024) 
(Updated as on March 4, 2022) 
(Updated as on March 29, 2019)* 
To 
 
All Authorised Persons in Foreign Exchange 
Madam / Sir, 
Master Direction - Money Changing Activities 
In terms of Section 10 (1) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, the 
Reserve Bank, on an application, may authorise any person to be known as an 
authorised person, to deal in foreign exchange as an authorised dealer, money 
changer or off-shore banking unit or in any other manner as it deems fit. 
2. [Omitted] 1 
 
1 Para 2 omitted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated May 06, 2026 . Prior to omission, it read 
as follows: 
 
“2. With a view to providing adequate foreign exchange facilities to common persons, to widen the 
scope of activities which the Authorised Persons are eligible to undertake, and to ensure efficient 
customer service through competition, Reserve Bank, currently, issues authorisation under Section 
10(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, to 
• select banks (as Authorised Dealers Category -I) to carry out all permissible current and 
capital account transactions as per directions issued from time-to-time 
• select entities (as Authorised Dealers Category -II) to carry out specified non- trade related 
current account transactions, all the activities permitted to Full Fledged Money Changers and 
any other activity as decided by the Reserve Bank 
• select financial and other institutions (as Authorised Dealers Category-III) to carry out specific 
foreign exchange transactions incidental to their business / activities 
• select registered companies as Full Fledged Money Changers (FFMC) to undertake 
purchase and sale of foreign exchange for specified purposes only”

[Page 2]
2 
3. The directions relating to money changing activities as well as the conduct of 
foreign exchange transactions are being issued in a consolidated form through the 
Master Direction enclosed herewith, under Section 10(4) and Section 11(1) of the 
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and is without prejudice to 
permissions / approvals, if any, required under any other law.2 
4. The list of underlying notifications/circulars which form the basis of this Master 
Direction is furnished in the Appendix. Reporting instructions are covered in the  
Master Direction – Reporting under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 dated 
January 01, 2016 , as  amended from time to time.  The Authorised Persons may 
refer to respective circulars/ notifications for detailed information, if so needed. 
5. It may be noted that whenever necessary, Reserve Bank shall issue directions to 
Authorised Persons through A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars in regard to any change in 
the rules, regulations, notifications, directions or orders or the manner in which 
relative transactions are to be conducted by the Authorised Persons with their 
customers/constituents. The Master Direction issued herewith shall be amended 
suitably simultaneously. 
   Yours faithfully, 
  
                             (N Senthil Kumar) 
Chief General Manager 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Para 3 modified vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated May 06, 2026 . Prior to modification, it 
read as follows: 
 
“The directions relating to the subject of money changing activities including authorisation and 
functioning of FFMCs, non -bank ADs Category II, and franchisees of Authorised Persons as well as 
the conduct of foreign exchange transactions with their customers/constituents are being issued in a 
consolidated form through the Master  Direction enclosed herewith, under Section 10(4) and Section 
11(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and is without prejudice to 
permissions / approvals, if any, required under any other law.”

[Page 3]
3 
* Since this Master Direction has been significantly amended, it has been replaced rather than showing 
the changes in track mode for reader convenience. The previous Master Dir ection – Money Changing 
Activities dated January 1, 2016 (updated as on December 8, 2017)  
 
Index 
S.No Contents 
1 Section I Introduction 
2 Section II [Omitted] 
3 Section III Guidelines for appointment of Agents / Franchisees by Authorised 
Dealers Category I, Authorised Dealers Category II and FFMCs 
4 Section IV [Omitted] 
5 Section V Operational Instructions 
6 Section VI KYC/ AML/ CFT Guidelines 
7 Section VII [Omitted] 
8 Section VIII [Omitted] 
9 Annex Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for non-bank money changers 
during elections 
10 Appendix List of circulars consolidated

[Page 4]
4 
Master Direction - Money Changing Activities 
SECTION-I 
1. Introduction 
Money changing business can only  be undertaken by entities authorised by the 
Reserve Bank under Section 10 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999. 
and any person found undertaking money changing business without a valid licence 
is liable to be penalised under the Act ibid.  
This document contains the various instructions relating to the subject of money 
changing activities including functioning of Full Fledged Money Changers ( FFMCs), 
non-bank Authorised Dealers Category-II as well as the conduct of foreign exchange 
transactions with their customers/constituents.3  
 
3 Para 1 of Section I modified on May 06, 2026. Prior to modification, it read as follows: 
 
“Money changing business can be undertaken by entities authorised by the Reserve Bank under 
Section 10 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999. No person shall carry on money 
changing business without the possession of a valid money changer’s licence issued by the Reserve 
Bank. Any person found undertaking money changing business without a valid licence is liable to be 
penalised under the Act ibid. 
 
This document contains the various instructions relating to the subject of money changing activities 
including authorisation and functioning of Full Fledged Money Changers (FFMCs), non- bank 
Authorised Dealers Category -II and franchisees of Authorised Persons as well as  the conduct of 
foreign exchange transactions with their customers/constituents.”

[Page 5]
5 
2. [Omitted]4 
 
4 Para 2 of Section I omitted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated May 06, 2026 . Prior to 
omission, it read as follows: 
“2. Definitions 
 
2.1 Authorised Person means an authorised dealer, money changer, off -shore banking unit or any 
other person authorised under sub- section (1) of section 10 to deal in foreign exchange or foreign 
securities. 
 
2.2 ‘Authorised Dealer’ (AD) means a person authorised as an authorised dealer under sub- section 
(1) of section 10 of FEMA. 
 
2.3 ‘Authorised Dealer (AD) Category I’ means entities which are authorised by the Reserve Bank to 
carry out all permissible current and capital account transactions as per directions issued from time-
to-time 
 
2.4 ‘Authorised Dealer (AD) Category II’ means entities which are authorised by the Reserve Bank to 
carry out specified non- trade related current account transactions, all the activities permitted to Full 
Fledged Money Changers and any other activity as decided by the Reserve Bank, and shall include 
(i) Upgraded FFMCs; (ii) Select Regional Rural Banks (RRBs); (iii) Select Urban Cooperative Banks 
(UCBs); and (iv) Other entities. 
 
2.5 ‘Authorised Dealer (AD) Category III’ means entities which are authorised by the Reserve Bank to 
carry out specific foreign exchange transactions incidental to their business / activities.  
 
2.6 ‘Full Fledged Money Changer (FFMC)’ is a money changer authorised to purchase foreign 
exchange from non-residents visiting India and residents, and to sell foreign exchange for private and 
business travel purposes only. 
 
Note: Authorised Dealer Category -I Banks/ Authorised Dealers Category -II/ FFMCs may appoint 
franchisees, at their option, for the purpose of carrying restricted money changing business i.e. 
conversion of foreign currency notes, coins or travellers' cheques into Indian Rupees.”

[Page 6]
6 
3. [Omitted]5 
 
5 Para 3 of Section I omitted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated May 06, 2026 . Prior to 
omission, it read as follows: 
 
“3. Guidelines for issuance of FFMC Licence 
 
FFMCs are authorised  to purchase foreign exchange from non- residents visiting India and residents, 
and to sell foreign exchange for private and business travel purposes only.  
 
The guidelines for issue of a new FFMC licence and renewal of FFMC licence, guidelines for grant of 
authorisation for additional branches, guidelines for obtaining approval for appointment of 
agents/franchisees and guidelines on Know Your Customer (KYC)/Anti Money Laundering 
(AML)/Combating of Financing of Terrorism (CFT) for Authorised Persons (AP), are given below. 
 
(i) Entry Norms 
 
(a) The applicant has to be a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956/ Companies Act 
2013/ Registration of Companies (Sikkim) Act, 1961. 
 
(b) The minimum Net Owned Funds (NOF) required for consideration as FFMC are as follows:  
Category Minimum NOF 
Single branch FFMC Rs.25 lakh 
Multiple branch FFMC Rs.50 lakh 
Note: The Net Owned Funds of applicants, other than banks, should be 
calculated as per the following.  
(a) Owned Funds: - (Paid-up Equity Capital + Free reserves + Credit 
balance in Profit & Loss A/c) minus (Accumulated balance of loss, Deferred 
revenue expenditure and Other intangible assets)  
(b) Net Owned Funds: - Owned funds minus the amount of investments in 
shares of its subsidiaries, companies in the same group, all (other) non-
banking financial companies as also the book value of debentures, bonds, 
outstanding loans and advances made to and deposits with its subsidiaries 
and companies in the same group in excess of 10 per cent of the Owned 
funds. 
 
 
(ii) Documentation 
Application in the prescribed form should be submitted through the APConnect application 
(https://apconnect.rbi.org.in/entity) to the respective Regional Office of the Foreign Exchange 
Department of the Reserve Bank under whose jurisdiction the registered office of the applicant falls, 
along with the following documents: 
 
(a) Copy of the Certificate of Incorporation. 
 
(b) Memorandum and Articles of Association containing a provision for undertaking money changing 
business or an appropriate amendment to this effect filed with the Company Law Board.  
 
(c) Copy of the latest audited accounts with a certificate from the Statutory Auditors certifying the Net 
Owned Funds as on the date of application. Copies of the audited Balance Sheet and Profit & Loss 
Account of the company for the last three years, wherever applicable. 
 
(d) Confidential Report from the applicant's banker in a sealed cover.

[Page 7]
7 
SECTION II 
[Omitted]6  
 
(e) A declaration to the effect that no proceedings have been initiated by / are pending with the 
Directorate of Enforcement (DoE) / Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) or any other law 
enforcing authorities, against the applicant company or its directors and that no criminal cases are 
initiated / pending against the applicant company or its directors. 
 
(f) A declaration to the effect that proper policy framework on KYC guidelines issued by Reserve 
Bank of India from time to time will be put in place on obtaining the approval of the Reserve Bank and 
before commencement of operations. 
 
(g) Details of sister / associated concerns operating in the financial sector, like NBFCs, etc.  
 
(h) A certified copy of the board resolution for undertaking money changing business.  
 
(iii) Basis for Approval 
 
(a) Since several FFMCs are already functioning, fresh licences will be issued on a selective basis to 
those who comply with all the licensing requirements. 
 
(b) 'Fit and proper' criteria for the applicant FFMCs (also applicable to non- bank ADs Category - II): If 
any case by DoE / DRI or any other case by any other law enforcing authorities, is initiated / pending 
against any company / its directors, the company will not be considered as 'fit and proper' and its 
application will not be considered for licensing as FFMC. 
 
(c) ‘Fit and proper’ criteria for directors of FFMCs (also applicable to non- bank ADs Category - II): 
Please see SECTION- VIII for the details in this regard. 
 
(d) Clearance by the Empowered Committee: The request for issuance of FFMC licence would be 
considered by the Regional Office concerned of the Reserve Bank on the basis of the clearance by 
an Empowered Committee, set up for the purpose. 
 
(e) Reserve Bank’s decision in the matter of granting approval or otherwise will be final and binding. 
 
(f) On obtaining approval from the Reserve Bank, a copy of the registration under Shops & 
Establishment Act or any other documentary evidence such as rent receipt, copy of lease agreement, 
etc., should be submitted to the Regional Office concerned of the Reserve Bank before 
commencement of the business. 
 
(g) The FFMC should commence its operations within a period of six months from the date of 
issuance of licence and inform the Regional Office concerned of the Reserve Bank.  
 
(h) The new FFMCs should carry out their activities as per the instructions specified in SECTIONS V 
and VI below and other instructions issued by the Reserve Bank from time to time.  
 
Note: Urban Cooperative Banks (UCBs), fulfilling the eligibility norms, would be considered for 
authorisation as Authorised Dealer Category-I / Authorised Dealer Category-II only. 
 
6 Section II omitted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated May 06, 2026 . Prior to omission, it 
read as follows: 
 
“Guidelines for Grant of Authorisation for Additional Branches:-

[Page 8]
8 
 
 
1. No FFMC/non- bank AD Category II shall carry on money changing business at any additional 
place of business other than its permanent place of business except with the prior approval of the 
Reserve Bank. An FFMC/non- bank AD Category II which intends to co mmence money changing 
business at any additional place of business shall apply 3through the APConnect application to the 
respective Regional Office of the Foreign Exchange Department under whose jurisdiction the 
registered office of the applicant falls and the Reserve Bank may approve the additional place of 
business subject to such conditions as deem fit. It is expected that branches of Authorised Persons 
should be diversified and should be meeting the demand of tourists, etc. Preference will be given to 
applications for branches in remote areas of tourist attraction. 
 
2. Applications for additional locations (places of business) should be accompanied by the following: - 
 
(a) A certificate from Proprietor/Partner/Director /CFO of the entity as regards the position of NOF.  
 
(b) A declaration to the effect that no proceedings have been initiated by / are pending at the 
Directorate of Enforcement (DoE) / Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) or any other law 
enforcing authorities against the applicant or its  directors and that no criminal cases are initiated / 
pending against the applicant or its directors. 
 
Note: No new branch licence shall be issued to any FFMC/non- bank AD Category -II, against whom 
any major DoE / DRI case is pending. In DoE / DRI pending cases of a minor nature, a decision will 
be taken by the Reserve Bank on a case by case basis. The categorisation of pending DoE / DRI 
cases as major / minor will be at the discretion of the Reserve Bank and the decision of the Reserve 
Bank will be final and binding. Where any DoE / DRI case is adjudicated and penalty is imposed, a 
view will be taken, on the basis of the nature of the offence, provided no fresh case is instituted by 
DoE / DRI. 
 
(c) A declaration that there is no change in the KYC/AML/CFT policy framework since its last 
submission to RBI. However, in case there is a change, a copy of the revised / latest version of the 
policy shall be required to be submitted. 
 
(d) A declaration to the effect that there is no change in the internal control systems including internal 
and external audit since submission of the last write- up to RBI. However, in case there is a change, 
the revised/latest write-up would be required to be submitted. 
 
3. A copy of the registration under Shops & Establishment Act or any other documentary evidence 
such as rent receipt, copy of lease agreement, etc., should be submitted to the Regional Office 
concerned of the Reserve Bank before commencement of business at an additional branch.  
 
4. The FFMC/ non-bank AD Category II should commence operations of its additional branch within a 
period of six months from the date of issuance of licence and inform the Re gional Office concerned of 
the Reserve Bank. 
 
5. For opening Foreign Exchange Counters/branches/) at the international airports in India, AD 
Category-I banks/ ADs Category – II/ FFMCs should adhere to following conditions. 
 
(a) Foreign Exchange Counters/br anches in the arrival halls in international airports in India shall 
ideally be established after the Customs Desk (Green Channel/Red Channel). However, Foreign 
Exchange Counters may also be established between the Immigration Desk and the Customs Desk 
in international airports in India subject to the condition that these counters shall only purchase 
foreign currency and sell Indian Rupees (INR) and "Encashment Certificates" shall invariable be 
issued by the money changers to the customers.

[Page 9]
9 
SECTION III 
Guidelines for appointment of Agents / Franchisees by Authori sed Dealer s 
Category – I Banks, Authorised Dealers Category - II and FFMCs 
1.  Under the Scheme, the Reserve Bank had permitted ADs Category - I, AD s 
Category - II and FFMCs to enter into agency or franchisee agreements at their 
option for the purpose of carrying restricted money changing business i.e. 
conversion of foreign currency notes, coins or travellers' cheques into Indian 
Rupees. However, franchisees of AD Category - I / AD Category - II / FFMCs 
functioning within 10 kms from the borders of Pakistan and Bangladesh may also 
sell the currency of the bordering country, with the prior approval of the Regional 
Office concerned of the Reserve Bank. Other franchis ees of AD Category - I / AD 
Category - II / FFMCs  cannot sell foreign currency.  Notwithstanding anything 
contained in these directions, an authorised person shall not enter into any fresh 
franchisee arrangements henceforth, and the existing franchisee arrangements shall 
be discontinued gradually, in any case within two years from May 6, 2026.7 
 
 
(b) Foreign Exchange Counters/branches in the departure halls in international airports in India shall 
be established before the Customs Desk or the immigration desk, whichever comes first. However, 
the Foreign Exchange Counters established in the Duty -Free Area or Security Hold Area beyond the 
Immigration or Customs desk shall allow residents (along with non- residents) to exchange Indian 
Rupee notes. The limits of carrying Indian Rupees by residents and non- residents shall be as per the 
para given below at (c) and (d). 
 
(c) Resident Indians as well as those Non- residents who are – (i) not citizens of Pakistan or 
Bangladesh and (ii) not going to Pakistan or Bangladesh, are allowed to take Indian notes up to an 
amount not exceeding Rs.25,000/- while leaving the country through an airport. 
 
(d) Citizens of Pakistan and Bangladesh exiting the country by air are allowed to carry up to a 
maximum of Rs.10,000/- up to the boarding point in international airports, but not beyond.” 
 
7 Para 1 of Section I II modified vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated May 06, 2026 . Prior to 
modification, it read as follows: 
 
“Under the Scheme, the Reserve Bank permits ADs Category - I, ADs Category - II and FFMCs to 
enter into agency or franchisee agreements at their option for the purpose of carrying restricted 
money changing business i.e. conversion of foreign currency notes, coins or travellers' cheques into 
Indian Rupees. However, franchisees of AD Category - I / AD Category - II / FFMCs functioning within 
10 kms from the borders of Pakistan and Bangladesh may also sell the currency of the bordering 
country, with the prior approval of the Regional Office concerned of the Reserve Bank. Other 
franchisees of AD Category - I / AD Category - II / FFMCs cannot sell foreign currency.”

[Page 10]
10 
2. Franchisee 
A franchisee can be any entity which has a place of business and a minimum Net 
Owned Funds of Rs.10 lakh. Franchisees can undertake only restricted money 
changing business.  
3. Franchisee Agreement 
An AD Category-I Bank / AD Category-II / FFMC, as the franchiser, is free to decide 
on the tenor of the arrangement as also the commission or fee through mutual 
agreement with the franchisee.  
The Agency / Franchisee agreement to be entered into should include the following 
salient features:  
(a) The franchisees should display the names of their franchisers, exchange 
rates and that they are authoried only to purchase foreign currency, 
prominently in their offices. Exchange Rate for conversion of foreign currency 
into Rupees should be the same or close to the daily  exchange rate charged 
by the AD Category – I Banks / ADs Category - II / FFMC at its branches. 
(b) The foreign currency purchased by the franchisee should be surrendered only 
to its franchiser within 7 working days from the date of purchase.  
(c) The maintenance of proper record of transactions by the franchisee.  
(d)  The on- site inspection of the franchisee by the franchiser should be 
conducted at least once a year.  
4. [Omitted]8 
 
8 Para 4 of Section III omitted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09  dated May 06, 2026 . Prior to 
omission, it read as follows: 
 
“4. Procedure for application 
 
An AD Category – I Bank / AD Category - II/ FFMC should apply 5(non- bank AD Category - II and 
FFMCs should apply through the APConnect application) to the respective Regional Office of the 
Reserve Bank, in Form RMC -F for appointment of franchisees under thi s Scheme. The application 
should be accompanied by a declaration that while selecting the franchisees, adequate due diligence 
has been carried out and that such entities have undertaken to comply with all the provisions of the 
franchising agreement and prevailing Reserve Bank regulations regarding money changing. Approval 
would be granted by the Reserve Bank for the first franchisee arrangement. Thereafter, as and when

[Page 11]
11 
5. Due Diligence of Franchisees 
A franchiser, i.e. AD Category–I Bank/ AD Category–II / FFMC should undertake the 
following minimum checks while conducting due diligence of its franchisees: 
i. existing business activities of the franchisee/ its position in the area. 
ii. minimum Net Owned Funds of the franchisee. 
iii. Shops & Establishments / other applicable municipal certification in favour of 
the franchisee. 
iv. verification of physical existence of location of the franchisee, where restricted 
money changing activities will be conducted. 
v. conduct certificate of the franchisee from the local police authorities (certified 
copy of Memorandum and Articles of Association and Certificate of 
Incorporation in respect of incorporated entities). 
Note: Obtaining of Conduct Certificate of the franchisee from the local police authorities is 
optional for the franchisers. However, the franchisers may take due care to avoid appointing 
individuals/ entities as franchisees who have cases / proceedings initiated  / pending against 
them by any law enforcing agencies.  
 
vi. declaration regarding past criminal case, if any, cases initiated / pending 
against the franchisee or its directors / partners by any law enforcing agency, 
if any. 
vii. PAN Card of the franchisee and its directors / partners. 
viii. photographs of the directors / partners and the key persons of  franchisee.  
The above checks should be done on a regular basis, at least once in a year. The 
franchiser should obtain from the franchisees proper documentary evidence 
confirming the location of the franchisees in addition to personal visits to the site. 
The franchiser should also obtain a Chartered Accountant's certificate confirming the 
 
new franchisee agreements are entered into, these would have to be reported (through the 
APConnect application by non- bank AD Category-II and FFMCs) to the Reserve Bank in Form RMC -
F on a post-facto basis along with similar declaration as indicated above.”

[Page 12]
12 
maintenance of minimum Net Owned Funds of the franchisee, i.e., Rs.10 lakh on an 
ongoing basis. 
6. Selection of Centres  
(i)  The franch iser, i.e. AD Category –I Bank / AD Category –II / FFMC  may appoint 
franchisees within a distance of 100 kms. from their controlling branches concerned. 
(ii)   However, this distance criterion is relaxed in case of a recogni sed group/ chain 
of hotels appointed as franchisees, provided the headquarters of the group/ chain of 
hotels falls within a distance of 100 kms. of the controlling branch of the franchi ser 
concerned. 
(iii) Further, in case of areas declared as hilly areas (as defined by the respective 
State Governments/ Union Territories) and the North- Eastern States, the distance 
restriction given in point (i) above is not applicable.  
7. Training 
Franchisers are to impart training to the franchisees as regards operations and 
maintenance of records. 
8. Reporting, Audit and Inspection 
The franchisers, i.e. AD s Category–I Banks / ADs Category –II / FFMCs  are 
expected to put in place adequate arrangements for reporting of transactions by the 
franchisees to the franchisers on a regular basis (at least monthly). Regular spot 
audits of all locations of franchisees, at least once in six months, should be 
conducted by the franchiser . Such audits should involve a dedicated team and  
incognito visits should also be used to test the compliance level of the franchisees. A 
system of annual inspection of the books of the franchisees should also be put in 
place. The purpose of such inspection is to ensure that the money c hanging 
business is being carried out by the franchisees in conformity with the terms of the 
agreement and prevailing Reserve Bank guidelines and that necessary records are 
being maintained by the franchisees. 
9. Anti-Money Laundering (AML) / Know Your Customer (KYC) / Combating 
of Financing of Terrorism (CFT) Guidelines

[Page 13]
13 
Franchisees are required to strictly adhere to the AML / KYC/ CFT guidelines, as 
applicable to ADs Category–I Banks / ADs Category – II / FFMCs.9 
 
9 Note under Para 9 of Section III omitted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated May 06, 2026 . 
Prior to omission, it read as follows: 
 
“Note:- No licence for appointment of franchisees will be issued to any FFMC / non- bank AD 
Category - II, against whom any major DoE / DRI / CBI / Police case is pending. In case where any 
FFMC / non- bank AD Category - II has received one- time approval for appointing franchisees and 
subsequent to the date of approval, any DoE / DRI / CBI / Police case is filed, the FFMC / non- bank 
AD Category - II should not appoint any further franchisees and bring the matter to the notice of the 
Reserve Bank immediately. A decision will be taken by the Reserve Bank regarding allowing the 
FFMC / non-bank AD Category - II to appoint franchisees.”

[Page 14]
14 
SECTION IV10 
[Omitted] 
SECTION V 
Operational Instructions  
1. Bringing in and taking out of Foreign Exchange 
(i) Foreign exchange in any form can be brought into India freely without limit 
provided it is declared on the Currency Declaration Form (CDF) on arrival to the 
Custom Authorities. When foreign exchange brought in the form of currency notes or 
travellers' cheques does not exceed USD  10,000 or its equivalent and / or the value 
 
10 Section IV omitted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated May 06, 2026. Prior to omission, it 
read as follows: 
 
“Guidelines for Renewal of licences of existing FFMCs: 
 
1. The applicant should be a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956/ Companies Act, 
2013/ Registration of Companies (Sikkim) Act, 1961 having registered office within the area of 
jurisdiction of the respective Regional Office of the Foreign Exchange Department.  
 
2. The Net Owned Funds required are as follows: 
Category Minimum NOF 
Single branch FFMC Rs.25 lakh 
Multiple branch FFMC Rs.50 lakh 
 
3. Applications for renewal should be submitted 6through the APConnect application along with the 
documents mentioned below. 
 
(a) Copy of the latest audited accounts with a certificate from the Statutory Auditors regarding the 
position of Net Owned Funds as on date. 
 
(b) Confidential Report from the applicant's banker in a sealed cover. 
 
(c) A declaration to the effect that no proceedings have been initiated by/ are pending with the 
Directorate of Enforcement / Directorate of Revenue Intelligence or any other law enforcing 
authorities against the applicant company or its directors and that no criminal cases are initiated/ 
pending against the applicant company or its directors. 
 
(d) A copy of the KYC / AML / CFT policy framework existing in the company.  
 
Note: An application from an FFMC/non- bank AD Category -II for renewal of licence shall be made 
two months before expiry of the licence or such other period as the Reserve Bank may prescribe. 
Where an application for licence renewal is submitted, the licence shall continue in force until the date 
on which the licence is renewed or the application is rejected, as the case may be. No application 
from an FFMC/non- bank AD Category -II for renewal of licence shall be made after expiry of the 
licence.”

[Page 15]
15 
of foreign currency notes does not exceed USD  5,000 or its equivalent, declaration 
thereof on CDF is not required.11 
(ii) Taking out foreign exchange in any form, other than foreign exchange 
obtained from an authori sed dealer or a money changer is prohibited unless it is 
covered by a general or special permission of the Reserve Bank. Non- residents, 
however, have general permission to take out an amount not exceeding the amount 
originally brought in by them, subject to compliance with the provisions of sub- para 
(i) above. 
2. Purchases of Foreign Currency from Public 
(i) Authorised Persons and their  franchisees may freely purchase foreign 
currency notes, coins and travellers cheques from residents as well as non-
residents. The tenderer shall produce the CDF to the Authorised Persons and their 
franchisees, if the currency being tendered for exchange has been declared by him 
in CDF.12 
(ii) Requests for payment in cash in Indian Rupees to resident customers towards 
purchase of foreign currency notes and/ or Travellers’ Cheques from them may be 
acceded to the extent of only USD 1,000 or its equivalent per transaction. 
(iii) Requests for payment in cash by foreign visitors / Non- Resident Indians may be 
acceded to the extent of only USD 3,000 or its equivalent per transaction. 
 
11 Para 1(i) of Section V modified on May 06, 2026. Prior to modification, it read as follows: 
 
“Foreign exchange in any form can be brought into India freely without limit provided it is declared on 
the Currency Declaration Form (CDF) on arrival to the Custom Authorities. When foreign exchange 
brought in the form of currency notes or travellers' cheques does not exceed USD 10,000 or its 
equivalent and / or the value of foreign currency notes does not exceed USD 5,000 or its equivalent, 
declaration thereof on CDF is not insisted upon.” 
 
12 Para 2(i) of Section V modified on May 06, 2026. Prior to modification, it read as follows: 
 
“Authorised Persons and their franchisees may freely purchase foreign currency notes, coins and 
travellers cheques from residents as well as non- residents. Where the foreign currency was brought 
in by declaring on form CDF, the tenderer should be asked to produce the same. The production of 
declaration in CDF should invariably be insisted upon.”

[Page 16]
16 
(iv) Authorised Persons may sell Indian Rupees to foreign tourists / visitors against 
International Credit Cards / International Debit Cards and take prompt steps to 
obtain reimbursement through normal banking channels. 
While making payments in Indian Rupees to resident customers towards purchase 
of foreign currency notes and/ or traveller’s cheques, payment can be made in cash / 
by way of account payee cheque / demand draft / loading in INR debit 
cards/electronic funds transfer through banking channel, as per prescribed limits. 
3. Encashment Certificate 
(i) Authorised Persons may issue certificate of encashment when asked for in 
cases of purchases of foreign currency notes, coins and travellers cheques from 
residents as well as non- residents. These certificates bearing authori sed signatures 
should be issued on the letter head of the money changer and proper record should 
be maintained. 
(ii) In cases where encashment certificate is not issued, attention of the 
customers should be drawn to the fact that unspent local currency held by non-
residents will be allowed to be converted into foreign currency only against 
production of a valid encashment certificate. 
4. Purchases from other FFMCs and Authorised Dealers (ADs) 
An FFMC / non-bank AD Category II may purchase from other FFMCs  and 
Authorised Dealers (ADs) any foreign currency notes, coins and encashed traveller’s 
cheques tendered in the normal course of business. Rupee equivalent of the amount 
of foreign exchange purchased should be paid only by way o f crossed account 
payee cheque/d emand draft/banker’s cheque / p ay order /electronic funds transfer 
through banking channel. 
5. Sale of foreign exchange 
(I) Private Visits  
Authorised Persons may sell foreign exchange up to the prescribed ceiling specified 
in Schedule III to the Foreign Exchange Management (Current Account Transaction) 
Rules, 2000 during a financial year  to persons resident in India for undertaking one

[Page 17]
17 
or more private visits to any country abroad (except Nepal and Bhutan). Exchange 
for such private visits will be available on a self -declaration basis to the traveller 
regarding the amount of foreign exchange availed during a financial year. Foreign 
nationals permanently resident in India are also eligible to avail of this quota for 
private visits provided the applicant is not availing of facilities for remittance of his 
salary, savings, etc., abroad in terms of extant regulations. 
(II) Business visits   
Authorised Persons may sell foreign exchange to persons resident in India for 
undertaking business travel or for attending a conference or speciali sed training or 
for maintenance expenses of a patient going abroad for medical treatment or check -
up abroad or for accompanying as attendant to a patient going abroad for medical 
treatment / check -up up to the limits specified in Schedule III to FEMA (Current 
Account Transactions) Rules, 2000.  
(III) Forex Pre-paid Cards 
Authorised Dealers Category-II may issue forex pre-paid cards to residents travelling 
on private/business visit abroad, subject to KYC/AML/CFT requirements. However, 
the settlement in respect of forex pre- paid cards shall  be effected  through AD 
Category-I banks only.13  
In this regard, it is clarified that prepaid foreign currency cards are a form of foreign 
currency, similar to foreign currency notes or travellers cheques. As such, the 
authorised dealers  (ADs)/FFMCs selling pre -paid foreign currency cards for travel 
purposes are required to comply with the same rigorous standards of due diligence 
and KYC as they would in case they were selling foreign currency notes/ travellers 
cheques to their customers.   
 
 
 
13 Para 5(III) of Section V modified on May 06, 2026. Prior to modification, it read as follows: 
 
“Authorised Dealers Category -II may issue forex pre- paid cards to residents travelling on 
private/business visit abroad, subject to KYC/AML/CFT requirements. However, the settlement in 
respect of forex pre-paid cards may be effected through AD Category-I banks.”

[Page 18]
18 
Conditions  
i. The Reserve B ank will not generally, prescribe the documents which should be 
verified by the Authorised Persons  while releasing foreign exchange. In this 
connection, attention is drawn to sub-section (5) of Section 10 of FEMA, 1999.  
ii. In case of issue of travellers’ cheques, the traveler should sign the cheques in 
the presence of an authori sed official and the purchaser’s acknowledgement for 
receipt of the travellers’ cheques should be held on record. 
iii. Authorised Persons may release foreign exchange for travel purposes on  the 
basis of a declaration given by the traveler regarding the amount of foreign 
exchange availed of during the financial year. 
iv. Authorised Persons may accept payment in cash below Rs.50,000/- (Rupees fifty 
thousand only) against sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad (for private visit 
or for any other purpose). Wherever the sale of foreign exchange is for the 
amount equivalent to Rs.50,000/- and above whether it involves a single drawal 
or multiple drawals for a single journey, the payment must be rec eived only by a 
crossed cheque drawn on the applicant’s bank account or crossed cheque drawn 
on the bank account of the firm sponsoring  the visit of the applicant or electronic 
funds transfer through banking channel  by applicant or sponsoring company or 
banker’s cheque / pay order / demand draft.  In addition to the payment by 
Rupees/ through crossed cheque/ banker’s cheque/ pay order/ demand 
draft/electronic funds transfer through banking channel,  Authorised Persons may 
also accept the payments made by the traveller through debit cards/ credit cards/ 
prepaid cards for travel abroad (for private visit or for any other purpose) 
provided- (i) KYC/ AML / CFT guidelines are complied with, (ii) sale of foreign 
currency/ issue of foreign currency traveller ’s cheques is within the limits (credit/ 
prepaid cards) prescribed by the bank, (iii) the purchaser of foreign currency/ 
foreign currency travellers’ cheque and the credit/ debit/ prepaid card holder is 
one and the same person.

[Page 19]
19 
v. The sale of foreign currency notes and coins within the overall entitlement of 
foreign exchange should be restricted to the limits prescribed by the Reserve 
Bank from time to time for the country of visit of the traveller. 
Note: Instructions in the Master Direction - Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) dated January 1, 
2016 ( updated from time to time), as applicable, shall apply .

[Page 20]
20 
6. Sales against Reconversion of Indian Currency 
Authorised Persons may convert into foreign currency, unspent Indian currency held 
by non- residents at the time of their departure from India, provided a valid 
Encashment Certificate is produced. 
Note (1): Authorised Persons may convert at their discretion, unspent Indian currency up to 
Rs.10,000 in the possession of non- residents if, for bonafide reasons, the person is unable to 
produce an Encashment Certificate after ensuring that the departure is scheduled to take place wit hin 
the following seven days. 
Note (2): ADs Category –  I, ADs Category –  II and FFMCs may provide facility for reconversion of 
Indian Rupees to the extent of Rs.50,000/- to foreign tourists (not NRIs) against ATM Receipts based 
on the following documents. 
• Valid Passport and VISA 
• Ticket confirmed for departure within 7 days. 
• Original ATM slip (to be verified with the original debit/ credit card).   
 
7. Cash Memo 
Authorised Persons shall  issue a cash memo, if asked for, on official letterhead to 
travellers to whom foreign currency is sold by them. The cash memo may be 
required for production to emigration authorities while leaving the country. 
8. Rates of Exchange 
Authorised Persons  may put through transactions relating to foreign exchange at 
market determined exchange rates.14 
9. Display of Exchange Rate Chart 
Authorised Persons should display at a prominent place in or near the public 
counter, a chart indicating the rates for purchase/sale of foreign currency notes and 
travellers' cheques for all the major currencies and the card rates for any day, should 
be updated, latest by 10:30 a.m. 
 
 
 
14 Para 8 of Section V modified on May 06, 2026. Prior to modification, it read as follows: 
“Authorised Persons may put through transactions relating to foreign currency notes and travellers' 
cheques at rates of exchange determined by market conditions and in alignment with the ongoing  
market rates.”

[Page 21]
21 
10. Display of Money Changing Licence 
An FFMC/ non-bank AD Category II  should at each of its business place, display at 
a prominent place in or near the public counter, a copy of the m oney changing 
licence issued by Reserve Bank of India. 
11. Foreign Currency Balances 
(i) An FFMC/non-bank AD Category -II should keep balances in foreign 
currencies at reasonable levels and avoid buildup of idle balances with a view to 
speculating on currency movements. 
(ii) Franchisees should surrender foreign currency notes, coins and travellers' 
cheques purchased only to their franchisers within seven working days. 
(iii) The transactions between authori sed dealers and FFMCs should be settled 
by way of account payee crossed cheques / demand drafts /electronic funds transfer 
through banking channel . Under no circumstances should settlement be made in 
cash.  
12. Replenishment of Foreign currency Balances 
(i) FFMCs/non-bank ADs Category II may obtain their normal business 
requirements of foreign currency notes from other FFMCs and Authorised Dealers 
(ADs) in India, against payment in rupees made by way of account payee crossed 
cheque / demand draft/electronic funds transfer through banking channel. 15From 
July 1, 2024, value of foreign currency notes sold by FFMCs / non- bank ADs 
Category-II to the public for permitted purposes should not be less than 75% of the 
value of foreign currency notes purchased from other FFMCs/ ADs, on a quarterly 
basis. Data of such sale and purchase should be maintained and made available for 
audit / inspection. FFMCs/ADs selling foreign currency may also ascertain the ‘sale 
to public’ requirement of the buying FFMCs/non- bank ADs Category II, by seeking 
relevant data from such entities. 
 
15 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 08 dated May 27, 2024

[Page 22]
22 
(ii) Where FFMCs/ non-bank ADs Category II are unable to replenish their stock 
in this manner, they may make an application to the Regional Office concerned of 
the Reserve Bank  through an AD Category -I for permission to import foreign 
currency into India. The import should take place through the designated AD 
Category-I through whom the application is made. 
13. Export / Disposal of surplus Foreign Currency Notes / Travellers' 
Cheques 
FFMCs/non-bank ADs Category II may export surplus foreign currency notes / 
encashed travellers' cheques to an overseas bank through designated Authori sed 
Dealer Category - I in foreign exchange for reali sation of their value through the 
latter. FFMCs may also export surplus foreign currency to private money changers 
abroad subject to the condition that either the reali sable value is credited in advance 
to the AD Category – I bank’s nostro account or a guarantee is issued by an 
international bank of repute covering the full value of the foreign currency notes / 
coins to be exported.  
14. Write-off of foreign currency notes 
16In the event of foreign currency notes purchased being found f ake/forged 
subsequently, FFMCs/ non-bank ADs Category II  may write -off the same after 
approval of their Top Management after exhausting all available options for recovery 
of the amount.  
 
16 Modified vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 17 dated June 24, 2026. Prior to modification, it read 
as follows: 
 
In the event of foreign currency notes purchased being found fake/forged subsequently, FFMCs/ non-
bank ADs Category II may write- off up to USD 2000 per financial year after approval of their Top 
Management after exhausting all available options for recovery of the amount. Any write- off in excess 
of the above amount, for any reason including but not limited to foreign currency notes being found to 
be fake or forged would require the approval of the Regional Office concerned of the Foreign 
Exchange Department of the Reserve Bank. 
The request should be submitted through the APConnect application ( Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) 
Circular No.01 dated April 06, 2023).

[Page 23]
23 
15. Registers and Books of Accounts of Money-changing Business 
(i) 17[***]  
(ii) All registers and books should be kept up- to-date, cross -checked and 
balances verified daily.  
(iii) Transactions not pertaining to money changing business of the  FFMC/ non-
bank AD Category II  should not be mixed up with money changing 
transactions. In other words, the registers and books of account should show 
clearly the trail of transactions pertaining to money changing business. 
(iv) Separate registers should be maintained for each establishment, if the FFMC/ 
non-bank AD Category II maintains more than one place of business.  
Note: Inter-branch transfer of foreign currencies should be accounted as stock transfer and not 
as sales. 
16. Submission of Statements to the Reserve Bank 
(i) FFMCs/non-bank ADs Category II should submit 18through the APC onnect 
application to the office of the Reserve Bank which has issued the licence, a 
monthly consolidated statement for all its offices in respect of sale and 
 
17 Deleted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 17 dated June 24, 2026. Prior to deletion, it read as 
follows: 
 
“(i) FFMCs/ non- bank ADs Category II shall maintain the following Registers in respect of their 
money-changing transactions: 
a) Daily Summary and Balance Book (Foreign currency notes / coins) in form FLM 1. 
b) Daily Summary and Balance Book(Travellers' cheques) in form FLM 2. 
c) Register of purchases of foreign currencies from the public in form FLM 3. 
d) Register of purchases of foreign currency notes / coins from Authorised Dealers and 
FFMCs in form FLM 4.  
e) Register of sales of foreign currency notes / coins and foreign currency travellers' 
cheques to the public in form FLM 5.  
f) Register of sales of foreign currency notes /coins to Authorised Dealers / FFMCs / 
overseas banks in form FLM 6.  
g) Register of travellers' cheques surrendered to Authorised Dealers / FFMCs / 
exported in form FLM 7.” 
18 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.01 dated April 06, 2023

[Page 24]
24 
purchase of foreign currency notes  19(including foreign currency notes 
written-off) in form FLM 8  so as to reach not later than the 10 th of the 
succeeding month. 20Entities maintaining Nostro accounts and reporting the 
relevant transactions through FETERS shall not submit FLM-8 returns.  
(ii) 21[***] 
(iii) 22[***] 
(iv) 23[***] 
(v) FFMCs/ non-bank ADs Categor y II should report to the respective Regional 
Office of the Foreign Exchange Department of the Reserve Bank under 
whose jurisdiction the registered office of the applicant falls, regarding any 
action initiated by Directorate of Enforcement (DoE) / Directorate of Revenue 
Intelligence (DRI) or any other law enforcing authorities against the FFMCs / 
non-bank ADs Category II or its directors within one month of such action. 
 
19 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.17 dated June 24, 2026 
20 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.17 dated June 24, 2026 
21 Deleted vide AP (DIR Series) Circular No.05 dated November 13, 2020 . Prior to deletion, it read  
‘FFMCs/non-bank ADs Category II should submit to the Regional Office concerned of the Foreign 
Exchange Department, Reserve Bank, a monthly statement indicating details of receipt / purchase of 
USD 10,000 (or its equivalent) and above per transaction in the prescribed format , within 10 days of 
the close of the month. They should include transactions of their franchisees in their statement.’  
22 Deleted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 17 dated June 24, 2026. Prior to deletion, it read as 
follows: 
 
“(iii) FFMCs/ non- bank ADs Category II FFMCs should submit a quarterly statement regarding 
Foreign Currency Account/s maintained in India in their names with AD Category -I Banks to the 
Regional Office concerned of the Foreign Exchange Department, Reserve Bank as per the prescribed 
format.” 
23 Deleted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 17 dated June 24, 2026. Prior to deletion, it read as 
follows: 
 
“(iv) An Annual Statement should be submitted by all the FFMCs/ non- bank ADs Category II to the 
respective Regional Offices of the Foreign Exchange Department, Reserve Bank which have issued 
the licenses within one month of the financial year -end, giving the details of the amount written off 
during the financial year, as per the prescribed format.”

[Page 25]
25 
(vi) Authorised Persons having franchisee arrangements shall s ubmit to the 
Reserve Bank  a list of such arrangements  within 15 days from the end of 
each calendar quarter. 
17. Inspection of Transactions  
Section 12(1) of Foreign Exchange Management Act 1999, empowers any officer of 
Reserve Bank specially authori sed in this behalf to inspect the books and accounts 
and other documents of Authorised Persons under FEMA . The Authorised Persons 
should provide al l assistance and co- operation to Inspecting Officers in carrying out 
their inspection. Failure to produce any books of account or other document or to 
furnish any statement or information or to answer any question relating to the money 
changing transactions to the Inspecting Officers, shall be deemed to be a 
contravention of the provisions of the Act ibid. 
18. Concurrent Audit 
(i) FFMCs/ non-bank ADs Category II should put in place a system of Concurrent 
Audit of the transactions undertaken by them. 
(ii) All single branch FFMCs having a turnover of more than US D 100,000 or 
equivalent per month should institute a system of monthly audit. Single branch 
FFMCs h aving turnover equal to or less than USD  100,000 or equivalent per 
month may institute a system of quarterly audit . FFMCs/ non-bank ADs Category 
II having multiple branches, may put in place a system of Concurrent Audit which 
will cover 80 per cent of the transactions value- wise under a system of monthly 
audit and rest 20 per cent of the transactions value-wise under quarterly audit. 
(iii) Appointment/selection of concurrent auditors is left to the discretion of the 
FFMCs/non-bank ADs Category II . The concurrent auditors should check all the 
transactions of the FFMCs/non- bank ADs Cat egory II and ensure that the same 
are undertaken as per the instructions issued by the Reserve Bank from time to 
time and all necessary requirements are complied with. The scope of concurrent 
audit should, inter alia, include:  
• KYC/AML/CFT related areas,

[Page 26]
26 
• timely submission of statements,  
• verification that prescribed registers are being maintained,  
• verification that all money changing transactions have been recorded in 
the respective books and registers,  
• verification that cash is accepted within the limit of INR 50000, including 
cases of structuring of transactions into a series of cash transactions  
below INR 50000, 
• verification that payments received in non- cash mode from customers are 
reflected in the bank account statements of the FFMC/non- bank AD 
Category II 
(iv) The Statutory Auditors are required to certify that the Concurrent Audit and the 
internal control systems are working satisfactorily. 
19. [Omitted]24 
20. Opening of Foreign Currency Accounts 
FFMCs/ non-bank ADs Category II, with the approval of the respective Regional 
Offices of the Foreign Exchange Department, may be allowed to open Foreign 
Currency Accounts in India, subject to the following conditions:- 
(i) Only one account per currency may be permitted at a particular centre. 
(ii) Only the value of foreign currency notes/ encashed TCs exported through the 
specific bank and realised can be credited to the account. 
 
24 Para 19 of Section V omitted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated May 06, 2026. Prior to 
omission, it read as follows: 
 
“19. Temporary Money Changing Facilities 
 
FFMCs/non-bank ADs Category II are authorised  to transact money changing business only at the 
location or locations specifically indicated in the licence. If it is intended to provide money changing 
facilities on a temporary basis on certain special occasions, a separate application should be made 
through the APConnect application for the purpose to Regional Office of the Foreign Exchange 
Department of the Reserve Bank under whose jurisdiction the temporary money changing facility is 
proposed to be opened Full details such as period for which the exchange counter will be operated, 
volume of business expected, manner of accounting of the transactions, letter from organisers 
making available venue for the money changing facilities, etc. should be submitted. ”

[Page 27]
27 
(iii) Balances in the accounts shall be utili sed only for settlement of liabilities on 
account of- 
(a) TCs sold by the FFMCs/non-bank ADs Category II and 
(b) Foreign currency notes acquired by the FFMCs/  non-bank ADs Category II 
from ADs Category-I. 
(iv) No idle balance shall be maintained in the said account. 
25Application for opening of foreign currency accounts  should be submitted through 
the APConnect application. 
21.  Opening of Nostro Account by Authorised Dealers Category-II 
Authorised Dealers Category -II may open Nostro Accounts after getting one time 
approval from the concerned Regional Office of the Reserve Bank, subject to 
following terms and conditions. 
i) Only one Nostro account for each currency may be opened; 
ii) Balances in the account should be utili sed only for the settlement of  remittances 
sent for permissible purposes and not for the settlement in respect  of forex prepaid 
cards; 
iii) No idle balance shall be maintained in the said account; and 
iv) They will be subject to reporting requirements as prescribed from time to time. 
26Non-bank AD Category-II should submit application for opening of nostro accounts 
through the APConnect application. 
22. Submission of Balance Sheet and certificate for  maintenance of Net Worth 
and Forex Turnover27 
 
25 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.01 dated April 06, 2023 
26 Inserted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.01 dated April 06, 2023 
27 Para 22 of Section V modified vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated May 06, 2026 . Prior to 
modification, it read as follows: 
 
“22. Submission of Balance Sheet and maintenance of NOF :  All FFMCs/non-bank ADs Category -II 
shall submit their annual audited balance sheet to the concerned Regional Office of the Reserve 
Bank along with a certificate from their statutory auditors regarding the NOF as on the date of the 
balance sheet, latest by October 31 of the year concerned. As FFMCs/ non- bank ADs Category-II are 
expected to maintain the minimum NOF on an ongoing basis, if there is any erosion in their NOF 
below the minimum level, they are required to bring it to the notice of the Reserve Bank immediately

[Page 28]
28 
An FFMC/non-bank AD Category II shall submit to the Regional Office concerned of 
the Reserve Bank, a copy of annual audited balance sheet along with a certificate 
from the statutory auditors regarding the net worth as on the date of the balance 
sheet by 31 st October every year, and a certificate from the statutory auditors 
regarding annual forex turnover during the financial year, by 30th April every year. 
 
 
23. Participation in the Currency Futures and Exchange traded Cur rency 
Options Markets  
FFMCs and ADs Category -II [which are not Regional Rural Banks (RRBs), Local 
Area Banks (LABs), Urban Co- operative Banks (UCBs) and Non- Banking Financial 
Companies (NBFCs)], having a minimum net worth of Rs. 5 crore, may participate in 
the designated currency futures and currency options on exchanges recogni sed by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) as clients only for the purpose of 
hedging their underlying foreign exchange exposures. FFMCs and ADs Category –II 
which are RRBs, LABs, UCBs and NBFCs, may be guided by the instructions issued 
by the respective regulatory Departments of the Reserve Bank in this regard. 
24.28 For opening Foreign Exchange Counters/branches at the international 
airports in India, AD Category -I banks/ ADs Category – II/ FFMCs should adhere to 
following conditions. 
(a) Foreign Exchange Counters/branches in the arrival halls in international 
airports in India shall ideally be established after the Customs Desk (Green 
Channel/Red Channel). However, Foreign Exchange Counters may also be 
established between the Immigration Desk and the Customs Desk in 
international airports in India subject to the condition that these counters shall 
only purchase foreign currency and sell Indian Rupees (INR) and 
 
along with a detailed time bound plan for restoring the Net Owned Funds to the minimum required 
level.” 
 
28 Para 5 of Section II reinserted as Para 24 of Section V vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated 
May 06, 2026.

[Page 29]
29 
"Encashment Certificates" shall invariably be issued by the money changers to 
the customers. 
(b) Foreign Exchange Counters/branches in the departure halls in international 
airports in India shall be established before the Customs Desk or the 
immigration desk, whichever comes first. 29However, the Foreign Exchange 
Counters established in the Duty -Free Area or Security Hold Area beyond the 
Immigration or Customs desk shall allow residents (along with non- residents) 
to exchange Indian Rupee notes. The limits of carrying Indian Rupees by 
residents and non- residents shall be as per the para given below at (c) and 
(d). 
(c) Resident Indians as well as those Non- residents who are – (i) not citizens of 
Pakistan or Bangladesh and (ii) not going to Pakistan or Bangladesh, are 
allowed to take Indian notes up to an amount not exceeding Rs.25,000/ - while 
leaving the country through an airport.  
(d) Citizens of Pakistan and Bangladesh exiting the country by air are allowed to 
carry up to a maximum of Rs.10,000/ - up to the boarding point in international 
airports, but not beyond. 
SECTION VI 
KYC/ AML/ CFT Guidelines30 
(i) Authorised Persons, which are regulated by the Department of Regulation, 
Reserve Bank of India, shall be governed by the respective 'Know Your Customer' 
directions as applicable to them. 
(ii) Authorised Persons, which are not regulated by the Department of Regulation, 
Reserve Bank of India, shall be governed by ' Reserve Bank of India (Non- Banking 
Financial Companies – Know Your Customer) Directions, 2025'. 
 
29 Substituted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 4 dated April 2, 2026 . Prior to substitution it read as: 
"However, to enable the non- residents to convert their unspent/ excess Indian Rupees above the 
limits laid down at para (c) and (d) below, Foreign Exchange Counters/branches at the departure 
halls in the international airports may be established in the Duty Free Area/SHA beyond the 
Immigration/Customs desk." 
30 Substituted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 16 dated November 28, 2025.

[Page 30]
30 
(iii) Authorised Persons shall ensure compliance of directions, as applicable to them, 
by their agents/ sub-agents/franchisees. 
SECTION VII 
[Omitted]31 
 
31 Section VII omitted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated May 06, 2026 . Prior to omission, it 
read as follows: 
 
“Revocation of Licence 
 
The Reserve Bank reserves the right to revoke the licence granted to an Authorised Person at any 
time if the Reserve Bank is satisfied that (a) it is in public interest to do so or (b) the Authorised 
Person has failed to comply with any condition subject to which the authorisation is granted or has 
contravened any of the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 or any rule, 
regulation, notification, direction or order made thereunder. The Reserve Bank also reserves the right 
to revoke the authorisation of any of the offices for infringement of any statutory or regulatory 
provision. The Reserve Bank may at any time vary or revoke any of the existing conditions of a 
money changer’s licence or impose new conditions.”

[Page 31]
31 
SECTION VIII 
[Omitted]32 
 
 
 
 
 
32 Section VIII omitted vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 dated May 06, 2026. Prior to omission, it 
read as follows: 
 
“‘Fit and proper’ criteria for directors of FFMCs / non-bank ADs Category - II 
 
(a) The Boards of FFMCs / non- bank ADs Category - II should undertake a process of due diligence 
to determine the suitability of the person for appointment / continuing to hold appointment as a 
director on the Board, based upon qualification, expertise, track record, integrity and other ‘fit and 
proper’ criteria. For assessing integrity and suitability, factors like criminal record, if any, financial 
position, civil action initiated to pursue personal debts, refusal of admission to or expulsion from 
professional bodies, sanctions imposed by regulators or similar bodies, previous questionable 
business practices, etc. should be considered. The Board of Directors should assess ‘fit and proper’ 
status by calling for information by way of self -declaration, verification reports from market, etc. 
FFMCs / non- bank ADs Category - II should obtain necessary information and declaration from the 
proposed / existing directors for the purpose as given in the Master direction on Reporting.  
 
(b) The process of due diligence should be undertaken by the FFMCs / non- bank ADs Category - II at 
the time of appointment / renewal of appointment. 
 
(c) The Boards of the FFMCs / non- bank ADs Category - II should constitute Nomination Committees 
to scrutinise the declarations. 
 
(d) Based on the information provided in the signed declaration, Nomination Committees should 
decide on the acceptance or otherwise and may make references, where considered necessary to 
the appropriate authority / persons, to ensure their compliance with the requirements indicated.  
 
(e) FFMCs / non- bank ADs Category - II should obtain annually as on 31st March a simple 
declaration that the information already provided has not undergone change and where there is any 
change, requisite details are furnished by the directors forthwith. 
 
(f) The provisions of Companies Act 2013 shall apply with regard to the age of the candidate. Further, 
the candidate should not be a Member of Parliament / Member of Legislative Assembly / Member of 
Legislative Council. 
 
(g) Any change of directors during the year should be reported to the Regional Office concerned of 
the Foreign Exchange Department, Reserve Bank of India as given in the Master direction on 
Reporting. 
 
(h) Comments of respective Departments of the Reserve Bank will be obtained on the operations of 
an applicant who / whose parent organisation is already licenced / authorised by the Reserve Bank.”

[Page 32]
32 
33Annex 
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for non- bank money changers  during 
elections 
The movement of foreign exchange can take place between Authorised Dealer 
Category I (AD Cat. I), Authorised Dealer Category II (AD Cat. II), Full Fledged Money 
Changers (FFMC), their offices/branches, their customers and their franchisees.  
On a request received from the Election Commission of India the following Standard 
Operating Practice (SOP) for movement of cash (foreign exchange), during elections 
is being notified: 
A. Physical Movement- 
1. All movement of Indian currency or foreign exchange should be effected by the 
person(s) authorised, who should carry the supporting documents while moving 
the cash. The movement should be on the basis of requisition made by the 
receiver and to the address of the destination. 
2. If the cash is being moved from the office/branch of the Authorised Person 
(AP), it should leave the place only after it has been recorded in the books of 
accounts of the AP. 
3. Similarly, if the destination point of movement of the currency is the 
office/branch of the AP, it should be recorded in the books of accounts of the 
AP, on the same day or on the date of receipt. 
4. Transfer of foreign currency between branches of the same AP should be 
accounted as stock transfer and not as sale so that double counting is avoided.  
B. In the case of doorstep forex service by FFMCs / Authorised Dealers Category II to 
their regular customers, inter -alia, the processing and accounting of the transaction 
should take place in the office of the AP and the transaction should be supported by 
necessary documents for value received. The delivery of the forex should be done by 
authorised officials of the AP only.  
C. As far as possible movement of Indian Currency should be made through banking 
channels (viz. cheque, demand draft, NEFT, RTGS, IMPS etc.) only. The transactions 
between authorised dealers and FFMCs should be settled by way of account payee 
 
33 Inserted in terms of the Policy Decision, effective date February 22, 2017

[Page 33]
33 
crossed cheques / demand drafts/ electronic funds transfer through banking channel  
and in no circumstances the settlement of Indian Currency should be made in cash. 
The cash (INR) collected by the AP or its franchisee should be deposited to a bank 
branch on the same day or next day. 
D. The cancellation of any move for transportation of cash should be properly 
documented. 
E. The movement of cash should be in sync with the documents. 
F. The upper limit for movement of cash in INR would be Rs.10,00,000/ - and in 
Foreign Currency equivalent of USD1,00,000 except the transactions where the 
imported foreign currency is being transported to the offices/ branch of the AP.

[Page 34]
34 
 
Appendix 
 
List of A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars which have been consolidated in the Master 
Direction on money changing activities 
 
Sl. No. A.P.(DIR Series) Circular Date 
1 [**] [**] 
2 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.57 March 9, 2009 
3 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.06  August 3, 2009 
4 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.40  January 25, 2011 
5 [**] [**] 
6 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.31 October 03, 2011 
7 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.33 October 12, 2011 
8 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.38 October 25, 2011 
9 [**] [**] 
10 [**] [**] 
11 [**] [**] 
12 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.104 April 04, 2012 
13 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.109 April 18, 2012 
14 [**] [**] 
15 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.50 November 07, 2012 
16 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.96 April 5, 2013 
17 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 45 September 16, 2013 
18 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No. 146 June 19, 2014 
19 A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.14 July 25, 2014 
20 [**] [**] 
21 [**] [**] 
22 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 05 November 13, 2020 
23 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.01 April 06, 2023 
24 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.08 May 27, 2024 
25 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 16 November 28, 2025 
26 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 4 April 2, 2026 
27 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 09 May 06, 2026 
28 A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 17 June 24, 2026
