[Page 1]
Page 1 of 78 
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 
EXTRAORDINARY 
PART-II – SECTION 3 – SUB-SECTION (ii) 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
NOTIFICATION 
Mumbai, the 7th July, 1999  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(CREDIT RATING AGENCIES) REGULATIONS, 1999 
 
 
S.O. 547(E).– In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read with section  
11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regulations, 
namely:- 
 
 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement  
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of  
India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999.  
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official  
Gazette.   
 
Definitions  
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, -  
(a) "Act" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of  
1992);  
(b) "associate", in relation to a credit rating agency, includes a person–  
(i)  who, directly or indirectly, by himself, or in combination with relatives, 
owns or controls shares carrying not less than ten percent of the voting 
rights of the credit rating agency, or

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 78 
(ii) in respect of whom the credit rating agency, directly or indirectly, by 
itself, or  in combination with other persons, owns or controls shares 
carrying not less than ten percent of the voting rights, or 
(iii) majority of the directors of which, own or control shares carrying not 
less than ten percent of the voting rights of the credit rating agency, or 
(iv) whose  director,  officer  or  employee  is  also  a  director,  officer  or 
employee of the credit rating agency; 
(c) "Board" means the Board as defined in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of 
section 2 of the Act; 
(d) "body corporate" means a body corporate as defined in 1[ clause (11) 
of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)]; 
(e) "certificate"  means  a  certificate  of  2 [3 [***]] registration  
granted] by the Board under these regulations;  
4 [(ei) 5[***]  
6[(eii) “Change in control” in case of a body corporate –  
                                                           
1 Substituted the words and symbols “clause (7) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” with 
“clause (11) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 03-8-2021. 
2 Substituted for the words “registration granted or renewed” by SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. 
3 The words “initial or permanent” were omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In 
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
4 Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
19.03.2010. 
5 Omitted by  the SEBI (Change in Conditions  of Registration of Certain  Intermediaries) (Amen dment) 
Regulations, 2011, w.e.f 13.04.2011. Prior to its omission, clause (ei) read as under: 
“(ei) change of status or constitution” in relation to a credit rating agency - 
(i) means any change in its status or constitution of whatsoever nature; and 
(ii) without prejudice to generality of sub-clause (i), includes— 
 (A) amalgamation, demerger, consolidation or any other kind of corporate restructuring falling within the 
scope of section 391 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or the corresponding provision of any other 
law for the time being in force; 
(B) change in its managing director or whole-time director; and 
(C) any change in control over the body corporate;” 
6 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Control in Intermediaries) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 17-1-2023. Prior to its substitution, clause (eii) read as under: 
““change in control”, in relation to a credit rating agency being a body corporate, means: — 
(i)  if its shares are listed on any recognised stock exchange, change in control as defined under the 
regulations framed under clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act; 
(ii) in  any  other  case,  change  in  the  controlling  interest  in  the  body corporate.  
Explanation.─ For the purpose of sub -clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means an interest, 
whether direct or indirect, to the extent of at least fifty-one per cent of voting rights in the body corporate;”

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 78 
(A) if its shares are listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be 
construed with reference to the definition of control in terms of regulations 
framed under clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act;  
(B) if its shares are not listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be 
construed with reference to the definition of control as provided in sub -
section (27) of Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);]  
(f) "client" means any person whose securities are rated by a credit ratin g 
agency; 
     (g) "company" means a company  incorporated under the 7[Companies Act , 
2013 (18 of 2013]; 
 
(h) "credit rating agency" means a body corporate which is engaged in, or 
proposes to be engaged in, the business of rating of securities 8[that are 
listed or proposed to be listed on a stock exchange recognized by the 
Board]; 
(i) "economic offence" means an offence to  which the Economic Offences 
(Inapplicability of Limitation) Act, 1974 (12 of 1974), is applicable for the time 
being; 
(j) 9[* * *]  
(k) "form" means any of the forms specified in the First Schedule:  
(l)  "fraud" has the same meaning as is assigned to it by section 17 of the  
Indian Contract Act, 1872 (9 of 1872);  
(m)"group companies" means group compa nies as defined in the 10[Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018]; 
                                                           
7 Substituted by the words and symbols “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” with “Companies Act, 2013(18 of 
2013)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 03-8-2021. 
8 Substituted by the words “offered by way of public or rights issue” with “that are listed or proposed to be listed 
on a stock exchange recognized by the Board Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 03-8-2021”  
9 Omitted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 
2002, w.e.f. 27.09.2002. Prior to its omission, clause (j) read as under: 
“"enquiry officer" means any officer of the Board, or any other person, who is authorised by the Board under 
regulation 38”. 
10 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025  w.e.f 23.04.2025 . Prior to the substitution the words and symbols were “Monopolies and 
Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969)”.

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 78 
(n) "inspecting officer" means any one or more persons appointed by the  
Board under regulation 29;  
(o) "issuer" means a person whose securities are proposed to be rated by a 
credit rating agency; 
(p) "net-worth" means the aggregate value of the paid up equity capital and 
free reserves (excluding reserves created out of revaluation), reduced by 
the aggregate value of accumulated losses and deferred expenditure not 
written off, including miscellaneous expenses not written of; 
(q) "rating" means an opinion regarding securities, expressed in the form of 
standard symbols or in any other standardised manner, assigned by a credit 
rating agency and used by the issuer of such securities, to comply with a 
requirement specified by these regulations; 
(r) "rating committee "  means  a  committee  constituted  by  a  credit  rating 
agency to assign rating to a security; 
(s) "regulation" means a regulation forming part of these regulations;  
(t) "relative" means a relative as defined in 11[section 2(77) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)];  
(u) "schedule" means any of the schedules appended to these regulations;  
and  
(v) "securities" has the meaning assigned to it in clause (h) of section 2 of the  
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956.  
12[(2) The words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but 
defined in the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the 
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), or any rules or regulations made thereunder 
shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts, rules 
or regulations made thereunder o r any statutory modification or re -enactment 
                                                           
11 Substituted by the words and symbols “section 6 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” with “section 2(77) 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)” by the S ecurities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating 
Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 03-8-2021. 
12 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 03-8-2021. Prior to its substitution, it read as “Words and expressions used  and  not  
defined  in  these  regulations,  but defined in the Act, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them 
in the Act.”

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 78 
thereto, as the case may be]. 
  
CHAPTER II  
REGISTRATION OF CREDIT RATING AGENCIES   
 
Application for grant of certificate 13[of 14[***] registration]  
3. (1) Any person proposing to commence any activity as a credit rating agency 
on or after the  date of commencement of these regulations shall make an 
application to the Board for the grant of a certificate of 15[***] registration for the 
purpose. 
(2) 16[***] 
(3) An application for the grant of a certificate under sub-regulation (1) 17[***] shall 
be made to the Board in Form A of the First Schedule and shall be accompanied 
by a non–refundable application fee, as specified in Form A  of the second 
Schedule, to be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof. 
(4) 18[***] 
 
 
Promoter of credit rating agency  
4. The Board shall not consider  an app lication under regulation 3 unless  the 
                                                           
13 Inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f.05.07.2011 
14 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
15 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (A mendment) Reg ulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to this the 
word “initial” was inserted by the SEBI (Credi t Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations,  2011 w.e.f. 
05.07.2011. 
16 Omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission sub -regulation (2) read 
as under : 
“(2) Any person, who was immediately before the said date carrying on any activity as a credit rating 
agency, shall make an application to the Board for the grant of  a certificate within a period of  three months 
from such date: 
Provided that the Board may, where it is of the opinion that it is necessary to do so, for reasons to be recorded 
in writing, extend the said period upto a maximum of six months form such date.”  
17 The words “or sub -regulation (2)” were omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In 
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
18 Omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission sub -regulation (4) read 
as under : 
“(4) Any person referred to in sub-regulation (2) who fails to make an application for the grant of a certificate 
within the period specified in that sub-regulation shall cease to carry on rating activity.”

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 78 
applicant is promoted by a person belonging to any of the following categories, 
namely: 
(a) a public financial institution, as defined in 19[section 2(72) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)];  
(b) a scheduled commercial bank included for the time being in the second 
schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934); 
(c) a foreign bank operating in India with the approval of the Reserve Bank of  
India;  
(d)20[a foreign credit rating agency incorporated in a Financial Action Task Force 
(FATF) member jurisdiction and recognised under their law, having  a 
minimum of five years’ experience in rating securities;] 
(e) any  company  or  a  body  corporate,  having  continuous  net  worth  of 
minimum rupees one hundred crores as per its audited annual accounts 
for the previous five years prior to filing of the application with the Board 
for the grant of certificate under these regulations. 
 
Eligibility criteria  
5. The Board shall not consider an application for the grant of a certificate under 
regulation 3, unless the applicant satisfies the following conditions, namely: 
(a) the applicant is set up and registered as a company under the 
21[Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)];  
(b) the  applicant  has,  in  its  Memorandum  of Association,  specified  rating 
activity as one of its main objects; 
(c) 22[the applicant has a minimum net worth of rupees twenty five crore;]  
                                                           
19 Substituted by the words and symbols “section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) with “section 
2(72) of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating 
Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 03-8-2021.  
20 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30 -05-2018. Prior 
to its substitution, it read as “a foreign credit rating agency recognised by or under any law for the time being 
in force in the country of its incorporation, having at least five years experience in rating securities;”  
21 Substituted by the words and symbols “Companies Act, 1956” with “Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)” by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 
03-8-2021.  
22 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30 -05-2018. Prior 
to its substitution, it read as under: 
“the applicant has a minimum net worth of rupees five crores.

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 78 
(d) the applicant has adequate infrastructure, to enable it to provide rating 
services  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and  these 
regulations; 
(e) the applicant and the promoters of the applicant, referred to in regulation 4 
have professional   competence,   financial   soundness   and   general 
reputation of fairness and integrity in business transactions, to the 
satisfaction of the Board; 
(f) neither the applicant, nor its promoter, nor any director of the applicant or 
its promoter, is involved in a ny legal proceeding connected with the 
securities market, which may have an adverse impact on the interests of 
the investors; 
(g) neither the applicant, nor its promoters, nor any director, of its promoter 
has at any time in the past been convicted of any offence involving moral 
turpitude or any economic offence; 
(h) the   applicant   has,   in   its   employment,   persons   having   adequate 
professional and other relevant experience to the satisfaction of the Board; 
(i)  neither the applicant, nor any person directly or indirectly connected with 
the applicant has in the past been – 
(i) refused by the Board a certificate under these regulations or  
(ii) subjected to any proceedings for a contravention of the Act or of any 
rules or regulations made under the Act. 
Explanation.─ For the purpose of this clause, the expression "directly 
or indirectly connected person" means  any person who is an associate, 
subsidiary, inter-connected or group company of the applicant or a company 
under the same management as the applicant. 
(j)  the applicant, in all other respects, is a fit and proper person for the grant 
of a certificate; 
(k) grant of certificate to the applicant is in the interest of investors and the 
securities market; 
                                                           
 Provided that a credit rating agency existing at the commencement of these regulations, with a net worth of less 
than rupees five crores, shall be deemed to have satisfied this condition, if it increases its net worth to the said 
minimum within a period of three years of such commencement.”

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 78 
23[(l) the promoter of the credit rating agency, in terms of regulation 4, has a 
minimum shareholding of 26% in the credit rating agency.] 
 
 
 
24[Criteria for Fit and Proper Person.  
5A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the credit rating agency 
is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in 
Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008.] 
 
 
Application to conform to the requirements  
6. Any application for a certificate, which is not complete in all respects or does not 
conform to the requirement of regulation 5 or instructions specified in Form A shall 
be rejected by the Board: 
Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be 
given  an  opportunity  to  remove,  within  thirty  days  of  the  date  of  receipt  of 
relevant communication, from the Board such objections as  may be indicated by 
the Board. 
Provided  further, that  the  Board  may, on  sufficient  reason  being  shown, 
extend the time for removal of objections by such further time, not exceeding 
thirty days, as the Board may consider fit to enable the applicant to remove such 
objections. 
 
 
Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation  
7. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish such further information or 
                                                           
23 Inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30 -05-2018. 
24Substituted by  the SEBI (Intermediaries) Regulat ions, 2008, w.e.f. 26.05.2008. Prior to its su bstitution, 
regulation 5A as inserted by the SEBI India (Criteria for Fit and Proper Person) Regulations, 2004, w.e.f. 
10.03.2004, read as under: 
“5A. Applicability of Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Cri teria for Fit and Proper Person)  
Regulations, 2004.─The provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Criteria for Fit and Proper 
Person) Regulations, 2004 shall, as far as may be, apply to all applicants or the credit rating agencies under 
these regulations.”

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 78 
clarification as the Board may consider necessary, for the purpose of processing 
of the application. 
(2) The Board, if it so desires, may ask the appli cant or  its authorised 
representative to appear before the Board, for personal  representation in 
connection with the grant of a certificate. 
 
 
25[8. Grant of certificate of 26[***] registration.  
(1) The Board, on being satisfied that t he applicant is eligible, shall grant a 
certificate of 27[***] registration in Form B and shall send an intimation to the 
applicant. 
28[(2) The certificate of registration granted under sub -regulation (1) shall be valid 
unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.] 
29[(3) The credit rating agency who has already been granted certificate of 
 registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and 
 Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain 
 Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have 
 been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).] 
                                                           
25 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. Prior 
to its substitution, regulation 8 read as under: 
“Grant of Certificate 
8. (1) The Board, on be ing satisfied that the appl icant is eligible  for the gr ant of a certificate of reg istration, 
shall grant a certificate in Form ‘B’. 
(2) The grant of certificate of registration shall be subject to the payment of the registration fee specified in Part 
A of the Second Schedule, in the manner prescribed in Part B thereof.” 
26 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
27 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
28 Substituted bye the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution sub-regulation (2) read 
as under: 
“(2) The certificate of initial registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid for  a period of  five 
years from the date of its issue to the applicant.” 
29 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution sub-regulation (3) read 
as under: 
“(3) The credit rating agency who has already been granted a certificate of registration  by the Board, prior to 
the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011,  and has not completed a period of three years, shall be deemed to have been granted a 
certificate of initial registration for a period of five years from the date of its certificate of registration, subject 
to payment of fee for the remaining period of two years, as  specified  under  Part A of Second Schedule,  
in  the manner prescribed in Part B thereof.”

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 78 
 
(4) The grant of a certificate of 30[***] registration shall be subject to payment of 
the  registration  fees  as  specified  under  Part A  of  Second  Schedule,  in  the 
manner prescribed in Part B thereof.] 
 
 
8A 31[***] 
 
 
Conditions of certificate 
32
[***]  
9. 33[***] The certificate granted under regulation 8 34[or 8A] shall be, subject to 
the following conditions, namely: 
(a) the credit rating agency shall comply with the provisions of the Act, the 
regulations made there under and the guidelines, directives, circulars and 
                                                           
30 The word “initial” omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.  
31 Omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
Prior to omission regulation 8A, as in serted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011 read as under: 
“8A. Grant of certificate of permanent registration. 
(1) The credit rating agency who has been granted or deemed to have  been granted  a certificate of initial 
registration under regulation 8, may, three  months before  the expiry of the period of certificate  of ini tial 
registration, make an application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration in Form A. 
(2) The credit rating agency who has already been granted a certificate of registration by the Board and has 
completed a period of five years, on the date of commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, may, three months before the expiry of validity of 
certificate of registration or before, make an application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration in 
Form A. 
(3) An application under sub -regulation (1) or sub -regulation (2) shall be accompanied by non -refundable 
application fee as specified in the Second Schedule. 
(4) The application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration shall be accompanied by details of the 
changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted to the Board while seeking initial 
registration or renewal, as the case may be, and a declaration stating that no  changes other than those as 
mentioned in such details have taken place. 
(5) The application for permanent registration made under sub-regulation (1) or (2) shall be dealt with in 
the same manner as if it were a fresh application for grant of a certificate of initial registration. 
(6) The Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall grant a certificate of permanent registration 
in Form B and shall send an intimation to the applicant. 
(7) On the grant of a certificate of permanent registration the credit rating agency shall be liable to pay the fee 
as specified in the Second Schedule of these regulations.” 
32 The words “and validity period” omitted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011 
33 Numbering of sub-regulation (1) omitted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011 
34 The words “or 8A” omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.  Prior to this the 
words “or 8A” were inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations,  2011 w.e.f. 
05.07.2011

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 78 
instructions issued by the Board from time to time on the subject of credit 
rating. 
(b) 35[***] where any information or particulars furnished to the Board by a  
credit rating agency:  
(i)  is found to be false or misleading in any material particular ; or  
(ii) has undergone change subsequently to its furnishing at the time of the 
application for a certificate; 
the credit rating agency shall forthwith inform the Board in writing 36[;]  
37[***] 
38[(c) where the credit rating agency proposes 39[change in control], it shall 
obtain prior approval of the Board for continuing to act as such after the 
change.] 
40[(d) the credit rating agency shall at all times maintain a minimum net worth of 
rupees twenty five crore.  
Provided that a credit rating agency already registered with the Board 
under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) 
Regulations, 1999, having a net worth less than rupees twenty five crores, 
shall, increase its net worth to the spe cified amount within a period of three 
years from the date of notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018. 
(e) the promoter of the credit rating agency, in terms of regulation 4, shall maintain 
a minimum shareholding of 26% in the credit rating agency for a minimum 
period of three years from the date of grant of registration by the Board. 
Provided that this clause shall not be applicable to a credit rating agency 
already registered with the Board under Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999, at the commencement of 
                                                           
35 Numbering of sub-regulation omitted, Ibid. 
36 Substituted for “.” , Ibid. 
37 Omitted, Ibid. Prior to its omission, sub-clause (2), read as under: 
“(2) the period of validity of certificate of registration shall be three years;” 
38 Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.e.f. 
19.03.2010. 
39 Substituted for “to change its status or constitution” by the SEBI (Change in Conditions of 
Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f 13.04.2011. 
40 Clauses (d)(e) and (f) inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 
30-05-2018

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 78 
Securities and Exchange Board of I ndia (Credit Rating 
Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018. 
41[(f) a credit rating agency shall not carry out any activity other than the rating of 
securities 42[that are listed or proposed to be listed on a stock exchange 
recognized by the Board]. 
43[Nothing contained in these regulations shall preclude a credit rating 
agency from carrying out any other activity as may be specified by the Board 
or carrying out rating of financial instruments under the purview of any other 
financial sector regulator or authority as may be specified by the Board:] 
44[Explanation: ─ For the purpose of this clause, the ratings undertaken by 
a credit rating agency shall be in accordance with the respective rating 
guidelines, wherever specified by the financial sector regulator or authority and 
shall be under the purview of the respective financial sector regulator or 
authority.] 
45[**]] 
 
                                                           
41 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. 11.09.2018. 
Prior to this, clause (f) read as: 
“(f) a credit rating agency shall not carry out any activity other than the rating of securities offered by way of 
public or rights issue. 
Provided that nothing in these regulations shall prohibit a credit rating agency from engaging in any other 
activity in so far as it may be required by a financial sector regulator as defined under section 3(18) of the 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. 
Provided further that if a credit rating agency is carrying out activities other than the activity required by a  
financial sector regulator, such activity shall be segregated to a separate entity within a period of two years from 
the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018” 
42 Substituted by  the words and symbols “offered by way of public or rights issue” with “that are listed or 
proposed to be listed on a stock exchange recognized by the Board” by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 03-8-2021. 
43 Substituted for the words and symbols “Nothing contained in these regulations shall preclude a credit rating 
agency from carrying out any activity as may be specified by the Board or rating of financial instruments under 
the respective guidelines of a financial sector regulator or any authority as may be specified by the Board:” vide 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 
15.01.2026. 
44 Substituted for the words and symbols “Explanation: ─ For the purposes of this clause, the ratings undertaken 
by a credit rating agency under the respective guidelines of a financial sector regulator or authority shall be 
under the purview of the respective financial sector regulator or a uthority.” vide the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 15.01.2026.  
45 Omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2026, w.e.f. 15.01.2026. Prior to its omission, the proviso read as under: “Provided that all other activities shall 
be segregated to a separate entity within a period of two years from the date of notification of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018.”

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 78 
10. 46[***] 
 
Procedure where certificate is not granted  
 
11.  47[(1) If, after considering an application made under regulation 3, the Board 
is of the opinion that a certificate of registration should not be granted, it may, after 
giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard, reject the application.] 
(2) The decision of the Board, not to grant 48[certificate of initial or permanent  
registration,   as   the   case   may   be,]   under   sub-regulation   (1)   shall   be 
communicated by the Board to the applicant within a period of thirty days of such 
decision, stating the grounds of the decision. 
(3) Any applicant aggrieved by the decision of the Board rejecting his application 
under sub-regulation (1) may, within a period of thirty days from the date of 
receipt by him of the communication referred to in sub-regulation (2) apply to the 
Board in writing for reconsideration of such decision. 
 
(4) Where an application for re-consideration is made under sub-regulation (3) 
the Board shall consider the application and communicate to the  applicant its 
decision in writing, as soon as may be. 
                                                           
46 Regulation 10 omitted by the SEBI (Credit Rating  Agencies) (Amendmen t) Regulations,  2011 w.e.f. 
05.07.2011. Prior to its omission, regulation 10 read as under: 
“Renewal of certificate 
10. (1) A credit rating agency, if it desires renewal of the certificate granted to it, shall make to the 
Board an application for the renewal of the certificate of registration. 18[(1A) An appl ication for  renewal of certificate of r egistration made under sub-regulation ( 1) s hall be 
accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in the Second Schedule.] 
(2) Such application shall be made not less than three months before expiry of the period of 
validity of the certificate, specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9. (3) The application for renewal made 
under sub-regulation (1)– 
(a)        shall be accompanied by a renewal fee as specified in the second schedule and 
(b) as far as may be, shall be dealt with in the same manner as if it were an application for the grant of a 
fresh certificate under regulation 3.” 
47 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution it read as under: 
“(1)  If,  after  considering  an  application  made  under  regulation  3  or 47[regulation 8A] as the case 
may be, the Board is of the opinion that a certificate 47[of initial or permanent registration should not be 
granted], as the case may be, it may, after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard, reject 
the application.” 
Also the words “regulation 8A” substituted the words “regulation 10”; and the words “of  initial or permanent 
registration should not be granted” substituted the words ““should not be granted or renewed” substituted” by 
the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011 
48 Substituted for the words “or not to renew the certificate” by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011.

[Page 14]
Page 14 of 78 
 
12. 49[***]  
50[CHAPTER IIA 
PAST RISK AND RETURN VERIFICATION AGENCY 
 
Recognition of an eligible credit rating agency as a Past Risk and 
Return Verification Agency  
12A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, the activity of a 
Past Risk and Return Verification Agency as referred to in Regulation 16E of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008, may 
be carried out by a credit rating agency, with the approval of the Board, on such 
terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
 
                                                           
49 Omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (A mendment) Reg ulations, 2016 w. e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission regulation 12 read as 
under: 
“Effect of refusal to grant certificate 
12. (1) 49[ A credit rating agency whose application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration has 
been refused by the Board, on and  from the date of the  receipt of the communication, shall cease to undertake 
any credit rating activity.] 49[(2) The decision of the Board, not to grant certificate of registration under sub -
regulation (1) shall be communicated by the Board to the applicant within a period of thirty days of such 
decision, stating the grounds of the decision.] 
(3) If the Board is satisfied that it is in the interest of the investors, it may permit the credit rating agency 
referred to under sub-regulation (1) or (2) to complete the rating assignments already entered into by it, 
during the pendency of the application or period of validity of the certificate. 
(4) The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, issue directions with regard to the transfer of 
records, documents or reports relating to the activities of a credit rating agency, whose application for the grant 
49[of a certificate of permanent registration] has been rejected. 
(5) The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, appoint any person  to take charge of the 
records, documents or reports relating to the rating activities of a credit rating agency referred to in sub-
regulation (4) and for this purpose also determine the terms and conditions of such appointment.” 
 
Also, prior to omission as the above, sub -regulation (1) was substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under: 
“An applicant referred to in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 11 whose application for the grant of a certificate 
has been rejected under regulation 11, shall not undertake any rating activity.” 
 
And, sub-regulation (2) was substituted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions 
Of Registration  Of Certain Intermediaries ) (A mendment) Regulations, 2016 w. e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to 
substitution it read as under: 
“(2) An  applicant  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  3,  whose application for the grant 
of a certificate has been rejected by the Board under regulation 11, shall, on and from the date of the receipt of 
the communication under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 11, cease to carry on any rating activity.” 
 
50 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025, w.e.f. 21.03.2025.

[Page 15]
Page 15 of 78 
(2) The Past Risk and Return Verification Agency shall engage a recognised stock 
exchange as a Past Risk and Return Verification Agency Data Centre on such 
terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
CHAPTER III  
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF CREDIT RATING AGENCIES   
 
Code of Conduct  
13. Every credit rating agency shall abide by the Code of Conduct contained in 
the Third Schedule. 
 
 
Agreement with the client  
14. Every credit rating agency shall enter into a written agreement with each 
client whose securities it proposes to rate, and every such agreement shall include 
the following provisions, namely:- 
(a) the rights and liabilities of each party in respect of the rating of securities 
shall be defined; 
(b) the fee to be charged by the credit rating agency shall be specified;  
(c) 51[the client shall co-operate with the credit rating agency in order to enable 
the latter to carry out periodic review of the rating during the tenure of the 
rated instrument ;] 
(d) the  client shall 52[**] co-operate with the credit rating agency in order to 
enable the latter to arrive at, and maintain, a true and accurate rating of 
the clients securities and shall in particular provide to the latter, true, 
adequate and timely information for the purpose. 
(e) the credit rating agency shall disclose to the client the rating assigned to 
the securities of the  latter through regular methods of disseminatio n, 
irrespective of whether the rating is or is not accepted by the client; 
                                                           
51 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 23.09.2019. Prior 
to its substitution the clause read as under: 
“(c) the client shall agree to a periodic review of the rating by the credit rating agency during the tenure of the 
rated instrument.” 
52 The words “agree to” omitted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 
23.09.2019.

[Page 16]
Page 16 of 78 
(f) The client shall 53[**] disclose, in the offer document;-  
(i) the rating assigned to the client’s listed securities by any credit rating 
agency during the last three years and 
(ii) any rating given in respect of the client’s securities by any other credit 
rating agency, which has not been accepted by the client. 
54[(g) the client shall 55[**] obtain a rating for any issue of debt securities in 
accordance with the relevant regulations.] 
56[(h) The client shall provide explicit consent to the credit rating agency to 
obtain the details related to their existing and/or future borrowing of any 
nature, its repayment and delay or default, if any, of any nature, in servicing 
of the borrowing, either from the lender or any other statuto ry/non-statutory 
organization maintaining any such information to enable the credit rating 
agency to have timely information on the same and to consider the impact 
of such information on the rating assigned by the credit rating agency.] 
 
 
57[Dispute Resolution 
14A. All claims, differences or disputes between a credit rating agency and its client 
arising out of or in relation to the activities of the credit rating agency in the securities 
market shall be submitted to a dispute resolution mechanism that  includes 
mediation and/or conciliation and/or arbitration, in accordance with the procedure 
specified by the Board.] 
 
 
Monitoring of ratings  
                                                           
53 The words “agree to” omitted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 
23.09.2019. 
54 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f 27.12.2011. 
Prior to its substitution the clause read as under: 
“(g) the cli ent shall agree to obtain a rati ng from at least two different  rating agencies for any issue of debt  
securities whose size is equal to or exceeds, rupees one hundred crores.” 
55 The words “agree to” omitted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 
23.09.2019. 
56 Inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 23.09.2019. 
 
57 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f., 04-07-2023.

[Page 17]
Page 17 of 78 
15. 58[(1) Every credit rating agency shall, during the lifetime of securities rated by 
it continuously monitor the rating of such securities, unless the rating is withdrawn, 
subject to the provisions of regulation 16(3).] 
(2) Every credit rating agency shall d isseminate information regarding newly 
assigned ratings, and changes in earlier  rating promptly through press releases 
and websites, and,  in the case of securities issued by listed companies, such 
information shall also be provided simultan eously to the concerned regional stock 
exchange and to all the stock exchanges where the said securities are listed. 
 
 
Procedure for review of rating  
16. 59[(1) Every credit rating agency shall carry out periodic reviews of all published 
ratings during the lifetime of the securities, unless the rating is withdrawn, subject 
to the provisions of regulation 16(3).] 
60[(2) If the client does not co-operate with the credit rating agency so as to enable 
the credit rating agency to comply with its obligations under regulation 15 of these 
regulations, the credit rating agency shall carry out the review on the basis of the 
best available information or in the manner as specified by the Board from time to 
time. 
Provided that if owing to such lack of co-operation, a rating has been based 
on the best available information, the credit rating agency shall disclose to the 
investors the fact that the rating is so based.] 
61[(3) A credit rating agency shall not withdraw a rating so long as the obligations 
                                                           
58 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30 -05-2018. Prior 
to the substitution, it read as “(1) Every credit rating agency shall, during the lifetime of securities rated by it 
continuously monitor the rating of such securities.” 
59 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30 -05-2018. Prior 
to the substitution, it read as “(1) Every credit rating agency shall carry out periodic reviews of all published 
ratings during the lifetime of the securities.” 
60 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30 -05-2018. Prior 
to the substitution, it read as “(2) If the client does not co -operate with the credit rating agency s o as to enable 
the credit rating agency to comply with its obligations under regulation 15 of this regulation, the credit rating 
agency shall carry out the review on the basis of the best available information  
Provided that if owing to such lack of co -operation, a rating has been based on the best available 
information, the credit rating agency shall disclose to the investors the fact that the rating is so based.”  
61 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30-05-2018. Prior 
to the substitution, it read as “(3) A credit rating agency shall not withdraw a rating so long as the obligations 
under the security rated by it are outstanding, except where the company whose security is rated is wound up 
or merged or amalgamated with another company.”

[Page 18]
Page 18 of 78 
under the security rated by it are outstanding, except where the company whose 
security is rated is wound up or merged or amalgamated with another company, or 
as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
Internal procedures to be framed  
17. Every credit rating agency shall frame appropriate procedures and systems 
for monitoring the trading of securities by its employees in the securities of its 
clients, in order to prevent contravention of – 
(a) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Insider Trading) Regulations,  
1992;  
(b) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and  
Unfair Trade  Practices  relating  to  the  Securities  Market)  Regulations,  
1995; and  
(c) other laws relevant to trading of securities.   
 
Disclosure of Rating Definitions and Rationale  
18. (1) Every credit rating agency –  
(a) shall make public the definitions of the concerned rating, along with the 
symbol and, 
(b) shall also state that the ratings do not constitute recommendations to buy, 
hold or sell any securities. 
(2) Every credit rating agency shall make available to the general public information 
relating to the rationale of the ratings, which shall cover an analysis of the various 
factors justifying a favourable assessment, as well as factors constituting a risk. 
 
 
Submission of information to the Board  
19. (1) Where any information is called for by the Board from a credit rating agency 
for the purposes of these regulations, including any report relating to its activities, 
the credit rating agency shall furnish such information to the Board – 
(a) within a period specified by the Board or  
(b) if no such period is specified, then within a reasonable time. 
(2) Every credit rating agency shall, at the close of each accounting period,

[Page 19]
Page 19 of 78 
furnish to the Board copies of its balance sheet and profit and loss account. 
 
 
Compliance with circulars etc., issued by the Board  
20. Every credit rating agency shall comply with such guidelines, directives, 
circulars and instructions as may be issued by the Board from time to time, on 
the subject of credit rating. 
 
 
62[20A. Appointment of Compliance Officer  
(1) Every credit rating agency shall appoint  a compliance officer who shall be 
responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules  and regulations, 
notifications, guidelines, instructions etc. issued  by the Board or the Central 
Government. 
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the  
Board any non-compliance observed by him.]   
 
Maintenance of Books of Accounts records, etc.  
21. Every credit rating agency shall keep and maintain, for a minimum period of 
five years, the following books of accounts, records and documents, namely: 
(a) copy of its balance sheet, as on the end of each accounting period; 
(b) a copy of its profit and loss account for each accounting period; 
(c) a copy of the auditor’s report on its accounts for each accounting period. 
(d) a copy of the agreement entered into, with each client; 
(e) information supplied by each of the clients; 
(f) correspondence with each client; 
(g) ratings assigned to various  securities  including  upgradation  and  down 
gradation (if any) of the ratings so assigned. 
(h) rating notes considered by the rating committee; 
(i)  record of decisions of the rating committee; 
(i)  letter assigning rating;  
(k) particulars of fees charged for rating and such other records as the Board 
                                                           
62 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advice by Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001,  w.e.f. 
29.05.2001.

[Page 20]
Page 20 of 78 
may specify from time to time. 
(2) Every credit rating agency shall intimate to the Board the place where the books 
of account,  records and documents required to be maintained under these 
regulations are being maintained. 
 
Steps on auditor’s report  
22. Every credit rating agency shall, within two  month’s from the date of the 
auditor’s report, take steps to rectify the  deficiencies if any, made out in the 
auditor’s report, insofar as they relate to the activity of rating of securities. 
 
 
Confidentiality  
23. Every credit rating agency shall treat, as confidential, information supplied to 
it by the client and no credit rating agency shall disclose the same to any other 
person, except where such disclosure is required or permitted by under or any 
law for the time being in force. 
 
 
Rating process  
24. (1) Every credit rating agency shall – 
(a) specify the rating process; 
(b) file a copy of the same with the Board for record; and file with the Board 
any modifications or additions made therein from time to time. 
(2) Every credit rating agency shall, in all cases, follow a proper rating process.  
(3) Every credit rating agen cy shall have professional rating committees, 
comprising members who are adequately qualified and knowledgeable to assign 
a rating. 
(4) All rating decisions, including the decisions regarding changes in rating, shall 
be taken by the rating committee. 
(5) Every credit rating agency shall be staffed by analysts qualified to carry out a 
rating assignment. 
(6)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  inform  the  Board  about  new  rating 
instruments or symbols introduced by it. 
(7)  Every  credit  rating  agency,  shall,  while  rating  a  security,  exerci se  due

[Page 21]
Page 21 of 78 
diligence in order to ensure that the rating given by the credit rating agency is fair 
and appropriate. 
(8) A credit rating agency shall not rate securities issued by it.  
(9) Rating definition, as well as the structure for a particular rating product, shall 
not be changed by a credit rating agency, without prior information to the Board. 
(10)  A credit rating  agency  shall  disclose  to the  concerned  stock exchange 
through press release and websites for general investors, the rating assigned to 
the securities of a client, after periodic review, including changes in rating, if any. 
 
63[Shareholding in a credit rating agency 
24A. (1) A credit rating agency shall not:  
(a) directly or indirectly, hold 10 per cent or more shareholding and/ or voting 
rights in any other credit rating agency, or 
(b) have representation on the Board of any other credit rating agency. 
Provided that a credit rating agency may, with the prior approval of the Board, 
acquire shares and/ or voting rights exceeding 10 per cent in any other credit rating 
agency only if such acquisition results in change in control in the credit rating 
agency whose shares are being acquired. On the basis of the prior approval sought 
by the acquirer, the Board may approve the acquisition in the interest of investors, 
market integrity and stability. 
 
(2) A shareholder holding 10 per cent or more shares and/ or voting rights in a credit 
rating agency shall not hold 10 per cent or more shares and/ or voting rights, directly 
or indirectly, in any other credit rating agency.  
Provided that the said restriction shall not apply to holdings by Pension Funds, 
Insurance Schemes and Mutual Fund Schemes. 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this regulation, a “credit rating agency” means 
a credit rating agency registered with the Board.] 
 
 
CHAPTER IV  
                                                           
63 Inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30 -05-2018.

[Page 22]
Page 22 of 78 
RESTRICTION ON RATING OF SECURITIES ISSUED BY PROMOTERS OR 
BY CERTAIN OTHER PERSONS 
 
 
Definitions  
25. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires;-  
(a) "associate" , in relation to a promoter, includes a body corporate in which 
the promoter holds ten percent or more, of the share capital; 
(b) "promoter" means a person who holds ten percent or more, of the shares 
of the credit rating agency. 
 
 
Securities issued by promoter  
26. (1) No credit rating agency shall rate a security issued by its promoter.  
(2) In case promoter is a lending institution, its Chairman, director or employee 
shall not be a Chairman, director or employee of credit rating agency or its rating 
committee. 
Provided that sub-regulation (2) shall come into force within three months 
from commencement of these regulations. 
 
 
Securities issued by certain entities, connected with a promoter, or rating 
agency not to be rated 
27. (1) No credit rating agency shall, rate a security issued by an entity, which is;- 
(a) a borrower of its promoter; or 
(b) a subsidiary of its promoter; or  
(c) an associate of its promoter, if  
(i)  there are common Chairman, Directors between credit rating agency 
and these entities. 
(ii) there are common employees.  
(iii) there  are  common  Chairman,  Directors,  Employees  on  the  rating 
committee. 
(2) No credit rating agency shall rate a security issued by its associate or subsidiary, 
if the credit rating agency or  its rating committee has a Chairman, director  or 
employee who is also a Chairman, director or employee of any such entity.

[Page 23]
Page 23 of 78 
64[Provided that the Credit Rating Agency may, subject to the provisions of  
sub-regulation (1), rate a security issued by its associate having a common 
independent director with it or rating committee if,- 
(i) such an independent director does not participate in the discussion on 
rating decisions, and 
(ii) the Credit Rating Agency makes a disclosure in the rating announcement 
of such associate (about the existence of common independent director) 
on its Board or of its rating committee, and that the common independent 
director did not participate in the rating process or in the meeting of its Board 
of Directors or in the meeting of the rating committee, when the securities 
rating of such associate was discussed. 
 
Explanation.─(1)  For  the  purposes  of  this  sub-regulation  the  expression  
‘independent director’ means a director who, apart from receiving remuneration 
as a director, does  not have any other material pecuniary relationship or 
transactions with the company, its promoters, its management or its subsidiaries, 
which in the judgment of the board of the company, may affect the independence 
of the judgment of such director.] 
 
 
Securities already rated  
28. Nothing in this Chapter shall apply to securities whose rating has been 
already done by a credit rating agency before the commencement of these 
regulations, and such securities may, s ubject to the provisions of the other 
Chapters of these regulations, continue to be rated, without the need to comply with 
the restrictions imposed by the regulations contained in this chapter. 
 
65[CHAPTER IVA 
ESG RATING PROVIDERS 
Applicability  
                                                           
64 Inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 19.02.2003. 
 
65 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2023, w.e.f. 4.07.2023.

[Page 24]
Page 24 of 78 
28A. The provisions of these regulations, except chapters II, III, and IV, shall be 
applicable to ESG rating providers: 
Provided that any reference to a “credit rating agency” under chapters I, V, 
VI and VII shall also be construed as a reference  to an “ESG rating 
provider”, as may be applicable: 
Provided further that the provisions of this Chapter shall only be applicable 
to ESG rating providers covered in the Fourth Schedule. 
Definitions 
28B. (1) In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires: - 
(a) “client” means any person who avails or proposes to avail the 
services of an ESG rating provider; 
(b) “environmental, social, and  governance ratings”, or “ESG ratings” 
means the rating products that are marketed as opinions about an 
issuer or a security, regarding its ESG profile or characteristics or 
exposure to ESG risk, governance risk, social risk, climatic or 
environmental risks, or impact on society, climate and the 
environment, that are issued using a defined ranking system of 
rating categ ories, whether or not these are explicitly labelled as 
“ESG ratings”;  
(c) “ESG rating provider” means a person which is engaged in, or 
proposes to engage in, the business of issuing ESG ratings; 
(d) “liquid net worth” means net worth deployed in liquid assets whi ch 
are unencumbered; 
 
Explanation. – For the purposes of this chapter,

[Page 25]
Page 25 of 78 
66[(i) “liquid asset” means a low risk asset such as cash, units of 
overnight or liquid mutual fund schemes, fixed deposits of scheduled 
commercial banks, government securities, treasury  bills, repo on  
government securities and repo on corporate bonds that may be 
easily converted into cash in a short period of time.]  
(ii) “Net Worth" means the aggregate value of the paid up equity 
capital and free reserves (excluding reserves created out  of 
revaluation), reduced by the aggregate value of accumulated losses 
and deferred expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous 
expenses not written off; 
(e) “issuer” means any person who is, or whose securities are, rated or 
proposed to be rated by an ESG rating provider;67[*] 
(f) “promoter” shall have the meaning assigned to it in Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 201868[;] 
69[(g) “subscriber-pays business model” means a business model where 
the ESG rating provider derives its revenues from ESG ratings from 
subscribers including banks, insurance companies, pension fund s, 
or the rated entity itself.] 
Registration of ESG rating providers 
28C. On and from the date of this regulation coming into force, no person shall 
act as an ESG rating provi der unless it has obtained a certificate from the 
Board:  
                                                           
66 Substituted for “(i) “liquid asset” is a low risk asset that can easily be converted into cash in a short period of 
time, such as cash, fixed deposits, government securities, treasury bills and repo on government securities .” by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agenc ies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024  vide 
notification dated July 8, 2024 w.e.f. July 11, 2024. 
67 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. Prior to the omission the word was “and”. 
68 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. Prior to the substitution the symbol was “.”. 
69 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Cr edit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 26]
Page 26 of 78 
Provided that a person acting as an ESG Rating Provider on the date of 
this regulation coming into force, may continue to do so for a period of six 
months from the date of this regulation coming int o force or such other 
period as may be specified by the Board, or if it has made an application 
for grant of a certificate for registration within the specified period, till the 
disposal of such application. 
Application for grant of certificate  
28D. (1) Any person intending to undertake business as an ESG rating provider, 
on or after this chapter coming into force, shall make an application to the 
Board for grant of a certificate. 
(2) An application for the grant of a certificate to act as an ESG rating 
provider shall be made to the Board, in Form A of the Fifth Schedule. 
(3) The application shall be accompanied by a non –refundable application 
fee, as specified in Part A of the Sixth Schedule, to be paid in the manner 
specified in Part B of the Sixth Schedule. 
(4) The application under sub -regulation (2) shall be made for seeking 
registration in any one of the following categories, namely –  
(a) Category I; or 
(b) Category II. 
Eligibility criteria  
28E. For the purpose of the grant of certificate, the applicant shall fulfil the 
following criteria namely, — 
(a) the applicant shall be incorporated as a company under the 
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013); 
(b) the applicant shall have specified ESG rating activity, as the main 
object in its Memorandum of Association;

[Page 27]
Page 27 of 78 
(c) the applicant shall have submitted, to the Board, its business plan 
pertaining to providing ESG ratings, along with the following 
information, namely –  
(i) a target breakeven date; 
(ii) target revenue and the targeted number of clients it plans to 
service, within two years of obtaining a certificate; and 
(iii) cumulative cash losses that the applicant projects to incur until 
the targeted breakeven date, along with the activities or areas in 
which such losses shall be incurred; 
Explanation. – The targets mentioned in clau se (c) of this 
regulation shall: 
A. be set by the applicants themselves;  
B. be limited to their operations in securities markets, i.e. 
related to issuers that are listed, or proposed to be listed, or 
whose securities are listed or proposed to be listed, on a 
recognized stock exchange; and  
C. be reasonable; 
(d) the applicant shall have submitted a declaration that it does not and 
shall not undertake any activity or offer any product or service, except 
the following: 
(i) ESG rating of an issuer, that is listed or proposed to be listed on 
a stock exchange recognized by the Board, or  
(ii) ESG rating of a security, that is listed or proposed to be listed 
on a stock exchange recognized by the Board, or  
(iii) Offering any other product or service or undertaking any other 
activity as may be specified by the Board, or

[Page 28]
Page 28 of 78 
(iv) ESG rating of any other product or issuer, as may be required 
by another financial sector regulator or authority, as may be 
specified by the Board, under the guidelines of such regulator or 
authority: 
Provided that a Category II ESG rating provider shall not undertake 
certification of green debt securities or such other activities as the 
Board may specify from time to time. 
(e) the applicant shall have and shall maintain the net worth as required 
under the provisions of these regulations:  
Provided that the net worth shall be in the form of positive liquid net 
worth; 
(f) the applicant shall have necessary infrastructure including adequate 
office space, technology, equipment and manpower, to enable it to 
provide ESG rating services in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act and these regulations: 
Provided that the requirement of having an office space shall not be 
mandatory for a Category II ESG rating provider  if it conducts its 
operations remotely subject to a declaration by it to this effect; 
(g) the applicant is not a credit rating agency or any other intermediary 
registered with the Board; 
(h) the applicant shall have appointed a compliance officer;  
(i) the applicant shall have, in its employment, persons with adequate 
professional and other relevant experience to the satisfaction of the 
Board;  
(j) the applicant and its promoter(s), are fit and proper perso n(s), as per 
Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;

[Page 29]
Page 29 of 78 
(k) the applicant, during the past three years from the date of filing the 
application, has not been – 
(i) refused by the Board a certificate under these regulations, or  
(ii) deemed not fit and proper by the Board, or 
(iii) subject to any enforcement action for a contravention of the Act 
or of any rules or regulations made under the Act. 
(l) the grant of certificate to the applicant would be in the interest of 
investors;  
(m) the applicant shall have, in case it is seeking registration under 
Category I, satisfied the following additional criteria, namely –  
(i) the applicant is a subsidiary of an intermediary registered with 
the Board, or of ESG rating provider incorporated in a Financial 
Action Task Force (FATF) member jurisdiction and recognized 
under their respective law, having a minimum experience of five 
years in ESG rating of securities or companies; 
(ii) the promoter of the applicant is: 
A. a person regulated by any of the financial  sector regulators 
namely, the Board, the Reserve Bank of India, the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India or the 
Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority, 
subject to the receipt of the relevant approval(s) from the 
concerned regulator or authority; or 
B. a foreign ESG rating provider incorporated in the jurisdiction 
of a member of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and 
recognized under their respective law, having a minimum 
experience of five years in the business of providing E SG 
rating of securities or companies; or

[Page 30]
Page 30 of 78 
C. a body corporate with a continuous net worth of minimum 
rupees one hundred crores, as per its audited annual 
accounts for the previous five years, prior to filing of the 
application with the Board for the grant of certificate: 
(iii) the promoter of the applicant shall maintain a minimum 
shareholding of twenty six per cent. in the ESG rating provider 
for a minimum period of five years from the date of grant of 
registration by the Board; 
(iv) the applicant shall maintain a minimu m liquid net worth of 
rupees five crores at all times: 
Provided that at the time of making the application, the applicant 
shall have a minimum liquid net worth of the higher of,  
A. rupees ten crores, or  
B. addition of rupees five crores and the target on cumulative 
cash losses until breakeven, as provided by the applicant 
under these regulations: 
Provided further that the liquid net worth can be drawn down in 
terms of the business plan submitted at the time of application 
for certificate, subject to compliance with these regulations; 
(v) the applicant shall have at least four employees specialized 
across the following areas, at all times: 
A. governance, 
B. sustainability, 
C. social impact or social responsibility, 
D. data analytics,

[Page 31]
Page 31 of 78 
E. finance, 
F. information technology, and 
G. law. 
Explanation. – For the purposes of this regulation, one employee 
may be treated as a specialist in at most two of the above areas. A 
person shall be considered as specialized in an area if such person 
possesses any of the following:  
A. relevant work experience of not less than five years in the 
specified area; or 
B. a professional qualification in the specified area from a university 
or an institution recognized by the Central Government or any 
State Government or a foreign university, or a Chartered 
Financial Analyst charter from the Chartered Financial Analyst  
Institute; or 
C. any other qualification as may be specified by the Board; 
(n) the applicant shall, in case it is seeking registration under Category II, 
satisfy the following additional criteria, namely –  
(i) the applicant shall maintain minimum liquid net worth of rupees 
ten lakh at all times: 
Provided that at the time of making the application, the applicant 
shall have a minimum liquid net worth of the higher of,  
A. rupees twenty lakhs; or  
B. addition of rupees ten lakhs and the target on cumulative 
cash losses until breakeven, as provided by the applicant 
under these regulations:

[Page 32]
Page 32 of 78 
Provided further that the liquid net worth can be drawn down in 
terms of the business plan submitted at the time of application  
for certificate, subject to compliance with these regulations; 
(ii) the applicant shall have at least two employees specialized 
across the following areas, at all times: 
A. governance, 
B. sustainability, 
C. social impact or social responsibility, and 
D. data analytics. 
Explanation. – For the purposes of this regulations, one employee 
may be treated as a specialist in at most two of the above areas. A 
person shall be considered as specialized in an area if such person 
possesses any of the following: 
(a) has relevant work experience of not less than five years in the 
specified area; or  
(b) a professional qualification in the specified area from a university 
or an institution recognized by the Central Government or any 
State Government or a foreign university; or  
(c) any other qualification as may be specified by the Board;  
(o) any other criteria, as may be specified by the Board, from time to time. 
Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation 
28F. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish any such further 
information or clarification regarding the activities of the ESG rating provider 
or any such matter connected thereto, to consider the application for grant 
of a certificate or after registration thereon.

[Page 33]
Page 33 of 78 
(2) The Board, if it so desires, may further require the applicant or its 
authorized representative to appear before it, for personal representation in 
connection with the grant of a certificate. 
Grant of certificate as an ESG rating provider 
28G. (1) The Board may grant certificate under any category of ESG rating 
provider, if it is satisfied that the applicant fulfils the requirements for that 
category. 
(2) The Board shall, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, grant a 
certificate in Form B of Fifth Schedule, and shall send an intimation to the 
applicant. 
(3) The certificate of registration granted under this regulation shall be valid 
unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board, or surrendered by the 
ESG rating provider. 
Conditions of certificate 
28H. The certificate granted under this chapter shall be subject to the following 
conditions: 
(a) the ESG rating provider shall comply with the provisions of the Act, the 
regulations made thereunder and the guidelines, directives, circular s 
and instructions as may be issued by the Board, from time to time;  
(b) the ESG rating provider shall forthwith inform the Board, in writing, if 
any information or particulars earlier furnished to the Board: 
(i) is found to be false or misleading in any material particular; or 
(ii) has undergone any chang e subsequent to its furnishing at the 
time of the application for a certificate. 
(c) in case any change in control of the ESG rating provider is proposed, 
the ESG rating provider shall obtain the prior approval of the Board for

[Page 34]
Page 34 of 78 
continuing to act as such after the change; 
(d) the ESG rating provider shall at all times maintain the minimum liquid 
net worth as required under the provisions of these regulations; 
(e) the ESG rating provider shall pay the requisite registration fees in the 
manner provided in these regulations; 
(f) the ESG rating provider shall meet the targets, declared at the time of 
its application to the Board, within the specified time: 
Provided that the above shall not be applicable with respect to 
projections on cumulative cash losses: 
Provided further that in case that the targets are not achieved, the ESG 
rating provider shall be required to contribute additional capital or take 
other remedial measures, as appropriate and as may be specified by 
the Board, within six months of the date of the corr esponding target 
date, or other such period as may be specified by the Board; 
(g) the ESG rating provider does not undertake any activity or offer any 
product or service, except services related to ESG ratings in 
accordance with these regulations or such other  products, services or 
activities as may be specified by the Board or activities incidental to 
such activities70[:] 
71[Provided that nothing contained in these regulations shall preclude 
an ESG rating provider from carrying out ESG rating of products or 
issuers under the respective guidelines of a financial sector regulator or 
any authority as may be specified by the Board. 
Explanation. ─ For the purposes of this clause, - 
                                                           
70 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. Prior to the substitution the symbol was “.”. 
71 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 35]
Page 35 of 78 
(a) the ESG ratings undertaken by an ESG Rating Provider under the 
respective guidelines of a financial sector regulator or authority shall 
be under the purview of the respective financial sector regulator or 
authority;  
(b) an entity that does not propose to undertake ESG rating of products 
or issuers  regulated by the Board may not be required to seek 
registration with the Board.] 
 
Procedure where certificate is not granted 
28I. (1) If, after considering an application made under this Chapter, the Board 
is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted, it may, after giving 
the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard, reject the 
application.  
(2) The decision of the Board, not to grant certificate under sub -regulation 
(1), shall be communicated by the Board to the applicant within a period of 
thirty days of such decision, stating the grounds of the decision.  
(3) Any applicant aggrieved by the decision of the Boa rd rejecting his 
application under sub-regulation (1) may, within a period of thirty days from 
the date of receipt by him of the communication referred to in sub-regulation 
(2), apply to the Board in writing for reconsideration of such decision. 
(4) Where an application for re-consideration is made under sub-regulation 
(3), the Board shall consider the application and communicate to the 
applicant its decision in writing, as soon as may be. 
Code of Conduct 
28J. The ESG rating provider shall abide by the Code of C onduct as set out in 
the Seventh Schedule. 
Transparency, governance and prevention of conflict of interest

[Page 36]
Page 36 of 78 
28K. The ESG rating provider shall: 
(a) maintain a website and disclose the ESG ratings, type of ESG rating 
(whether risk -based or impact -based or otherwise), scores on 
environmental, social and governance parameters and other 
parameters forming a part of the ESG rating, on such a website for 
public access and provide a hyperlink to the methodology of assigning 
an ESG rating; 
(b) prioritize adequate levels of public disclosure and transparency for its 
ESG ratings products, including its methodologies and processes; 
(c) disclose its rating methodology for all ESG ratings on its website, while 
maintaining a balance with respect to proprietary or confidential 
aspects of the methodologies, and include category -wise weightages 
of environmental, social, and governance fac tors in ESG ratings, as 
well as the weightage of high-level themes or key issues in each of the 
three factors; 
(d) disclose the category under which the ESG rating provider is registered 
in all its disclosures related to ESG ratings on its website;  
(e) use termin ologies which are relevant and reflective of the 
characteristics of the ESG ratings product offered and, if the ESG rating 
provider is an associate or subsidiary of a credit rating agency, the ESG 
rating provider shall prominently display that ESG ratings are different 
from credit ratings, through its website and the ESG rating reports; 
(f) disclose the changes in the ESG rating methodology and 
consequential changes in ESG ratings on its website; 
(g) disclose the extent to which a change in ESG rating is on account  of 
the change in the ESG rating methodology; 
(h) maintain and disclose archives of previous ESG rating methodologies

[Page 37]
Page 37 of 78 
and ESG ratings on its website, in an easily downloadable and 
machine-readable format, preferably in eXtensible Business Reporting 
Language; 
(i) publish its average one-year ESG rating transition rate on its respective 
website, in a manner as may be specified by the Board; 
(j) disclose, on its website, the general nature of compensation 
arrangements with clients and whether the ESG ratings assigned were 
solicited or unsolicited; 
(k) take other measures that the Board may consider material for a true 
and fair understanding of the ESG rating;  
(l) identify, disclose, and to the extent possible, avoid or appropriately 
mitigate potential conflicts of interest; 
(m) formulate policies and internal codes of conduct for dealing with 
conflicts of interest and prominently disclose the policies on its website; 
(n) identify, disclose and, to the extent possible, mitigate potential conflict 
of interest that may arise between ESG rat ing provider and its clients 
or client groups, or between multiple clients, or between the rated 
issuer or issuer whose securities are being rated and other clients or 
client groups, or between the ESG Rating Provider and any other 
sources; 
(o) ensure that ESG  ratings are not affected by any existing or potential 
business relationship between the ESG rating provider or its 
associates and any person for which it provides ESG ratings or 
associates of such person; 
(p) structure reporting lines for its staff and their compensation 
arrangements to eliminate or to the extent possible, mitigate actual and 
potential conflicts of interest;

[Page 38]
Page 38 of 78 
(q) not provide consulting or advisory services relating to or any areas 
related to environmental, social and governance aspects including 
ESG ratings; 72[*] 
(r) adopt and implement written policies and procedures to ensure that its 
decisions are independent, free from any form of undue interference or 
influence73[; and] 
74[(s) state on its website the financial sector regulator or authority under 
whose purview it undertakes ESG ratings for each product or issuer 
and shall comply with the applicable laws administered by such 
financial sector regulator or authority.] 
75[28KA. An ESG rating provider following a subscriber-pays business model shall 
ensure that: 
(a) the ESG rating assigned is based only on publicly available information; 
(b) The fee paid by the subscriber is the lowest fee payable or paid amongst 
all the subscribers, if: 
(i) the rated entity or issuer is a subscriber itself; or 
(ii) the group company or associate of an entity is a subscriber to the 
ESG rating of such entity or the securities issued by such entity; 
(c) only group companies or associates, of an entity, whose core business 
requires ESG ratings of such entity or the securities issued by such entity, 
and are regulated by financial sector regulator(s) may subscribe to the 
ESG rating:  
                                                           
72 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. Prior to the omission the word was “and”. 
73 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. Prior to the substitution the symbol was “.”. 
74 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
75 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 39]
Page 39 of 78 
Provided that by such subscription, there shall be no conflict of interest 
or any potential or actual abuse or misuse. 
Explanation.─ For the purpo se of this regulation, “associate” shall have 
the same meaning as defined under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 
2013).] 
Rating process and monitoring of ESG rating 
28L. (1) An ESG rating provider shall:  
(a) have appropriate internal resources to assign an ESG rating; 
(b) inform the general public of new ESG rating instruments or symbols 
introduced by it; 
(c) ensure that the ESG rating suitably incorporates the environmental, 
social and governance aspects that are contextual to the Indian  
market, in such manner as may be specified by the Board from time 
to time: 
Provided that nothing contained above shall preclude the ESG rating 
provider from offering additional ESG rating products or services.  
(d) promptly disclose the ESG rating assigned to any issuer or security, 
and any changes in ESG ratings or reviews, after periodic review or 
otherwise, to the stock exchange(s) where the issuer or the security 
is listed, and on its website, and issue press releases for the 
information of the investors; 
(e) have written policies, procedures and internal controls to ensure that 
the processes and methodologies are rigorous and systematic, are 
consistently applied, and are periodically reviewed and updated; 
(f) adopt and implement written policies and procedures to ensure the 
issuance of high quality ESG ratings based on publicly available

[Page 40]
Page 40 of 78 
information, and if such information is not available publicly, then 
rely on other information sources using transparent and defined 
methodologies; 
(g) have efficient systems to track material developments related to 
environmental, social and governance factors to ensure timely and 
accurate ESG ratings;  
(h) attempt to continually improve information gathering processes in 
respect of the issuers and securities rated by it; 
(i) respond to, and address issues flagged by issuers covered by its 
ESG rating products while ensuring that the same does not 
compromise the objectivity of the products; and 
(j) share the draft ESG rating report with the rated issuer or the issuer 
whose securities are being rated, before publication of the same: 
Provided that the ESG rating provider shall grant an opportunity of 
appeal and representation, if requested for by the issuer.  
76[Provided further that an ESG rating provider following a 
subscriber-pays business model shall: 
(i) share the ESG rating report with its subscribers and the rated 
entity or the issuer whose securities have been rated at the 
same time and provide two working days to such rated entity 
or the issuer to provide its comments; 
(ii) all comments or c larifications received from the rated entity 
within the specified timeline shall be included in the addendum 
to the ESG rating report by the ESG rating provider and if the 
rated entity or the issuer has a different viewpoint on the data 
or assumptions stated in the ESG rating report, the ESG rating 
                                                           
76 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 41]
Page 41 of 78 
provider, after taking into account the said viewpoint, shall 
either revise the ESG rating report or issue an addendum to 
the ESG rating report with its remarks, for circulation to all its 
subscribers, as conside red appropriate by the ESG rating 
provider; 
(iii) disclose the policy regarding sharing of ESG rating report with 
the rated entity or the issuer whose securities have been rated 
and the subscribers on its website; and 
(iv) provide a facility to the rated e ntity or the issuer whose 
securities have been rated to seek any clarification, including 
the ESG rating methodology or assumptions.] 
(2) The ESG rating provider shall continuously monitor the rating of a client, 
unless the rating is withdrawn in such manner as may be specified by the 
Board. 
 
Procedure for review of ESG rating 
28M. (1) The ESG rating provider shall annually, or if required, more frequently, review 
each of the published ESG ratings, unless the ESG rating is withdrawn in 
accordance with these regulations. 
(2) The ESG rating provider shall not withdraw an ESG rating except in 
cases where the rated issuer, or the issuer whose security is rated, is 
wound up or merged or amalgamated with another company, or except in 
cases as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(3) The ESG rating provider shall withdraw an ESG rating as per its 
documented policies, sub ject to sub -regulation (2), which shall also be 
disclosed on its website. 
(4) If the rated issuer or the issuer whose securities are rated by the ESG 
rating provider refuses co -operate with the ESG rating provider regarding

[Page 42]
Page 42 of 78 
the review of the ESG rating, despite being under a contractual obligation 
to do so, the ESG rating provider shall review the ESG rating on the basis 
of the best available information, in such manner as specified by the Board, 
from time to time: 
Provided that if an ESG rating has been provided based on the best 
available information owing to lack of co -operation by the rated issuer or 
the issuer whose securities are rated, the ESG rating provider shall disclose 
the same to the investors. 
Internal procedures to be framed 
28N. (1) An  ESG rating provider shall  frame appropriate procedures and 
systems for monitoring the  trading of securities by its employees in the 
securities of its clients, in order to prevent contravention of – 
(a) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015; 
(b) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Proh ibition of Fraudulent 
and Unfair Trade  Practices relating to the Securities Market) 
Regulations, 2003; and 
(c) other laws relevant to trading in securities. 
Disclosure of ESG rating definitions  
28O. The ESG rating provider shall, while disclosing ESG ratings, also disclose: 
(a) the definitions of that ESG rating, along with the symbols; and 
(b) explicitly state that the ESG ratings do not constitute recommendations 
to buy, hold or sell any securities. 
Submission of information to the Board

[Page 43]
Page 43 of 78 
28P. (1) The ESG rating provider shall furnish such information as may be called 
for, by the Board including any report relating to its activities, within such 
period as may be specified by the Board. 
(2) Every ESG rating provider shall, at the close of each accounting period, 
furnish to the Board copies of its financial  statements, in such manner as 
may be specified by the Board, from time to time. 
Appointment of Compliance Officer 
28Q. (1) The ESG rating provider shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be 
responsible for monitoring the compliance of all the applicable laws. 
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to 
the Board of any non-compliance observed by him or her. 
Maintenance of Books of Accounts records, etc. 
28R. (1) Every ESG rating provider shall  keep and maintain, for a minimum 
period of five  years, the following books of accounts,  records and 
documents, namely –  
(a) copy of its  financial statements  as on the end of each  accounting 
period; 
(b) a copy of the auditor’s report on its accounts for each accounting 
period; 
(c) a copy of the agreement entered into with each client, if applicable; 
(d) information supplied by each of the clients, if applicable; 
(e) correspondence with each client; 
(f) ESG ratings assigned to various issuers or securities including up - 
gradation and down gradation (if any) of the ratings so assigned;

[Page 44]
Page 44 of 78 
(g) ESG rating notes and other documents which state the rationale or 
form the basis for assigning an ESG rating; 
(h) letter or reports or press releases or disclosures assigning ESG ratings; 
(i) particulars of fees charged for ESG ratings; and  
(j) such other records as the Board may specify from time to time. 
(2) Every ESG rating provider shall  intimate to the Board the place where 
the books of  account, records and documents, required to be maintained 
under these regulations, are being maintained. 
Steps on auditor’s report 
28S. Every ESG rating provider shall, within two months from the date of the  
report of the auditor, take steps to rectify the deficiencies, if any, made out 
in such report, in so far as they relate to the activity of ESG rating. 
Confidentiality 
28T. (1) Every ESG rating provider shall treat, as confidential, the information 
supplied to it by any person and shall not disclose the same to any other 
person except where such disclosure is required or permitted by or under 
any law for the time being in force or the ESG rating provider has obtained 
the consent, in writing, of the provider of information. 
(2) The ESG rating provider shall not use the confidential information, 
shared by any person for any purpose other than ESG ratings, for 
undertaking ESG ratings, unless the ESG rating provider obtains the 
consent, in writing, from the provider of the information.  
(3) The ESG rating provider shall adopt and implement written policies and 
procedures to protect all non -public information received related to their 
ESG rating products. 
Restriction on shareholding in an ESG rating provider

[Page 45]
Page 45 of 78 
28U.  (1) An ESG rating provider shall not: 
(a) directly or indirectly, hold ten per cent. or more shareholding or 
voting rights in any other ESG rating provider, or 
(b) have representation on the board of directors of any other ESG 
rating provider: 
Provided that an ESG rating provider may, with the prior approval 
of the Board, in the interest of investors, market integrity and 
stability, acquire shares or voting rights exceeding ten per cent. in 
any other ESG rating provider if such acquisition resul ts in change 
in control in the ESG rating provider whose shares are being 
acquired.  
(2) A shareholder holding ten per cent. or more shares or voting rights in an 
ESG rating provider shall not hold ten per cent. or more shares or voting 
rights, directly or indirectly, in any other ESG rating provider: 
Provided that the said restriction shall not apply to holdings by pension 
funds, insurance schemes and mutual fund schemes. 
Explanation. – For the purpose of these regulations, a “ESG rating provider” 
means a ESG rating provider registered with the Board. 
Entities connected with a promoter or a rating agency not to be rated 
28V. (1) No ESG rating provider shall, rate an issuer or securities of any issuer, 
which is a borrower of its promoter or a  subsidiary of its promoter or an 
associate of its promoter, if 
(a) there are any common Chairpersons, or directors between the ESG 
rating provider and the borrower or the subsidiary or the associate 
of the promoter; or 
(b) there are common employees between the ESG rating provider and

[Page 46]
Page 46 of 78 
the borrower or the subsidiary or the associate of the promoter. 
(2) No ESG rating provider shall, rate an issuer or securities of any issuer, 
which is its promoter; 
(3) An ESG rating provider shall neither assign any ESG rating to an issuer 
promoted by it or its associates, nor rate securities of such issuers. 
(4) No ESG rating provider shall rate an issuer or securities of such issuer, 
if the ESG rating provider has a Chairperson, director or  employee who is 
also a Chairperson, director or employee of the issuer: 
Provided that the ESG rating provider may, subject to the provisions of sub-
regulation (1) rate an entity having a common independent director if, – 
(a) the independent director does not participate in the discussions on 
ESG rating decisions, and  
(b) the ESG rating provider makes  a disclosure in the ESG rating 
announcement of such issuer (about the existence of common 
independent director) on its Board, and that the common 
independent director did not participate in the rating process or in the 
meeting of its board of directors, when the rating of such associate 
was discussed. 
Explanation. –  For the purposes of this regulation, 
(a) “independent director” means a director who, apart from receiving 
remuneration as a director, does not have any other material 
pecuniary relationship or transactions with the company, its 
promoters, its management or its subsidiaries, which in the judgment 
of the board of the company, may affect the independence of the 
judgment of such director. 
(b) “associate”, in relation to a promoter, includes a body corporate in 
which the promoter holds ten per cent. or more, of the share capital;

[Page 47]
Page 47 of 78 
(c) “promoter” means a person who holds ten percent or more, of the 
shares of the ESG rating provider.] 
 
CHAPTER V  
PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION   
 
Board’s right to inspect  
29. (1) The Board may appoint one or more persons as inspecting officers, to 
undertake inspection or investigation of the  books of account,  records and 
documents of the credit rating agencies, for any of the purposes specified in sub- 
regulation (2). 
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be the following, namely: 
(a) to ascertain whether the books of account, records and documents are 
being maintained properly;  
(b)to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are 
being complied with; 
(c) to investigate into complaints received from investors, clients or any other 
person on any matter having a bearing on activities of credit rating agency 
77[in so far as the complaints relate to the rating of securities that are listed 
or proposed to be listed on a stock exchange recognized by the Board]; 
 (d) in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors.  
(3) The inspections ordered by the Board under  sub-regulation (1) shall not 
ordinarily go into an examination of the appropriateness of the assigned ratings 
on the merits. 
(4) Inspections to judge the appropriateness of the ratings may be ordered by the  
Board, only in case of complaints which are serious in nature.  
(5) Inspections referred to in sub-regulation (4) shall be carried out either by the 
officers of the  Board or independent experts, with relevant experience or 
                                                           
77 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 03-8-2021. Prior to its substitution, it read as “ to investigate into complaints 
received from investors, clients or any other person on any matter having a bearing on activities of credit 
rating agency to investigate into complaints received from investors, clients or any other person on any 
matter having a bearing on activities of the credit rating agency;”

[Page 48]
Page 48 of 78 
combination of both. 
 
 
 
Notice before inspection or investigation  
30. (1) Before ordering an inspection or investigation under regulation 29, the Board 
shall give not less than ten days written notice to the credit rating agency for that 
purpose. 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained  in sub-regulation (1) where the Board is 
satisfied that in the interest of the investors, no such notice should be given, it may, 
by an order in writing, direct that the inspection or investigation of the affairs of the 
credit rating agency be taken up without such notice. 
(3) During the course of an inspection or investigation, the credit rating agency 
against whom the inspection or investigation is being carried out shall be bound 
to discharge all its obligations as provided in regulation 31. 
 
 
Obligations of credit rating agency on inspection or investigation by the  
Board  
31. (1) It shall be the duty of every credit rating agency whose affairs are being 
inspected or investigated, and of every director, officer or employee thereof, to 
produce to the inspecting or investigating officer such books, accounts and other 
documents in its or his custody or control and furnish him with such statements 
and  information relating  to its  rating  activities, as  the  inspecting  officer  may 
require within such reasonable period as may be specified by the said officer. 
(2) The credit rating agency shall –  
(a) allow the inspecting officer to have reasonable access to the premises 
occupied by such credit rating agency or by any other person on its behalf; 
(b) extend  to  the  inspecting  officer  reasonable  facility  for  examining  any 
books, records, documents and computer data in the possession of the 
credit rating agency; and 
(c) provide copies of documents or other materials which, in the opinion of the 
inspecting officer, are  relevant for the purposes of the inspection or 
investigation, as the case may be.

[Page 49]
Page 49 of 78 
(3) The inspecting officer, in the course of inspection or investigation, shall be 
entitled to examine, or record the statements, of any officer, director or employee 
of the credit rating agency for the  purposes connected with the inspection or 
investigation. 
(4) Every director, officer or employee of the credit rating agency shall be bound 
to render to the inspecting officer all assistance in connection with the inspection 
or investigation which the inspecting officer may reasonably require. 
 
 
Submission of Report to the Board  
32. The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the 
inspection or investigation, submit a report to the Board. 
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim 
report.  
 
 
78[Action on inspection or investigation report 
 
33. The Board or the Chairman shall after consideration  of inspection or 
investigation report take such action as  the Board or Chairman may deem fit and 
appropriate including action under 79[Chapter V of the  Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]] 
 
 
CHAPTER VI  
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT   
 
                                                           
78 Substituted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry officer and Imposing Penalty)  
Regulation, 2002 w.e.f. 27-9-2002. Prior to its substitution, regulation 33 read as under: 
“33. Communication of Findings etc. to the Credit Rating Agency.─(1) The Board shall, after  
consideration of the inspection report or the interim report referred to in regulation 32, communicate the findings 
of the inspecting officer to the credit rating agency and give it a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the 
matter. 
(2) On receipt of the explanation, if any, from the credit rating agency, the Board may call upon the credit rating 
agency to take such measures as the Board may deem fit in the interest of the securities market and for due 
compliance with the provisions of the Act and these regulations.” 
79 Substituted for “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding 
Enquiry by Enquiry officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” by the SEBI (Inter mediaries) 
Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 26.05.2008

[Page 50]
Page 50 of 78 
80[Liability for action in case of default  
34. A credit rating agency which contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, 
Rules, or Regulations framed thereunder shall be liable for one or more actions 
specified therein including the action under Chapter V of the  Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] 
 
 
35. to 42. 81[***] 
                                                           
80 Substituted,  ibid.  Prior  to  its  substitution,  regulation  34  as  amended  by  the  SEBI (Procedure for 
Holding Enquiry by Enquiry officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulation, 2002, 
w.e.f. 27.09.2002, read as under: 
“34. Liability for action in case of default.─(1) A credit rating agency which─ 
(a)  fails to comply with any condition subject to which a certificate has been granted; or 
(b)  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act  or  these  regulations  or  any  other regulations made 
under the Act; 
shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Procedure for holding Enquiry by Enquiry officer and Imposing penalty) Regulations, 2002.” 
81 Regulation 35 to 42 omitted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry officer and 
Imposing Penalty) Regulation, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. Prior to omission, regulations 
35 to 42 read as follows: 
:35. Suspension of registration.─A penalty of suspension of the certificate of registration of a credit 
rating agency may be imposed by the Board, if the case falls under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 34. 
36. Cancellation of Registration.─(1) A penalty of cancellation of certificate of registration of a credit rating 
agency may be imposed by the Board, if: 
(a) the credit rating agency is guilty of fraud, or has been convicted of an offence involving 
moral turpitude or an economic offence; or 
(b) in case of rep eated defaults of the nature mentioned in sub-regulation (1) of regu lation 34. (c) the credit  
rating agency is declared insolvent or wound up; 
(2) The Board shall furnish to the credit rating agency reasons in writing for cancellation of registration. 
37. Manner of Making Order of Suspension and Cancellation.─No order of suspension or of 
cancellation of the certificate of registration, shall be passed by the Board, except after holding an enquiry in 
accordance with the procedure specified in regulation 38. 
Provided that the holding of such an enquiry shall not be necessary in cases where: (a) the credit rating 
agency is declared insolvent or is wound up; or 
(b) the credit rating agency fails to pay to the Board registration fees or renewal fee as per these regulations. 
Provided further that an opportunity of hearing shall be given before any action against the credit 
rating agency is taken. 
38. Manner of Holding enquiry before Suspension or Cancellation.─(1) For the purpose of 
holding an enquiry under regulation 37, the Board may appoint one or more enquiry officers. 
(2) The enquiry officer shall issue to the credit rating agency a notice at the registered office or the principal 
place of business of the credit rating agency, setting out the grounds on which action is proposed to be 
taken against it and calling upon it to show cause against such action within a period of fourteen days from the 
date of receipt of such notice. 
(3) The credit rating agency, may, within fourteen days from the date of receipt of such notice, furnish to the 
enquiry officer a written reply, together with copies of documentary or other evidence relied on by it or sought 
by the Board from the credit rating agency. 
(4) The enquiry officer shall give a reasonable opportunity of hearing to the credit rating agency, to 
enable it to make its submission in support of its reply made under sub-regulation (3). 
(5) Before the enquiry officer, the credit rating agency may either appear in person or through any person duly 
authorised on this behalf. 
Provided that no lawyer or advocate shall be permitted to represent the credit rating agency at the 
enquiry;

[Page 51]
Page 51 of 78 
82[CHAPTER VII 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
43. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation 
                                                           
Provided further that where a lawyer or an advocate has been appointed by the board as a presenting 
officer under sub-regulation (6), it shall be lawful for the credit rating agency to 
present his case through a lawyer or advocate. 
(6) If it is cons idered necessary, the enquiry officer may request the B oard to ap point a pr esenting officer to 
present its case. 
(7) The enquiry officer shall, after taking into account all relevant facts and submissions made by the credit 
rating agency, submit a report to the Board and recommend the penalty, if any to 
be imposed upon the credit rating agency as also the grounds on the basis of which the 
proposed penalty is justified. 
39. Show-cause notice and order.─(1) On receipt of the report from the enquiry officer, the Board shall consider 
the same and issue a show-cause notice to the credit rating agency, as to why the pe nalty as proposed by the 
enquiry officer should not be imposed. 
(2) The credit rating agency shall, within fourteen days of the date of receipt of the show-cause 
notice, send a reply to the Board. 
(3) The Board, after considering the reply of the credit rating agency to the show-cause notice, shall as soon as 
possible pass such order as it deems fit. 
(4) Every order passed by the Board under sub-regulation (3) shall be self-contained and shall give reasons for 
the conclusions stated therein, including justification of the penalty if any 
imposed by that order. 
(5) The Board shall send to the credit rating agency a copy of the order passed under sub- regulation (3). 
40. Effect of suspension and cancellation of registration of credit rating agency.─(1) On and from the date 
of suspension of the certificate of registration, the credit rating agency shall cease 
to carry on any rating activity during the period of suspension and shall be subject to such 
directions of the Board with regard to any records, documents securities or reports that may be connected with 
in its rating activities, as the Board may specify. 
(2) On and from the date of cancellation of the certificate of registration, the credit rating agency shall: - 
(a) cease to carry in any rating activity and 
(b) shall be subject to such directions of the Board with regard to the transfer of records, documents, securities 
or reports connected with its rating activities which may be in its custody or control as the Board may specify. 
(3) Notwithstanding the s uspension or  cancellation of  certificate of a  credit rating agency, if the Board  is 
satisfied that it is in the interest of the investors to grant such permission, the Board may grant to the credit 
rating agency permission to carry on such activities relating its assignments undertaken prior to such suspension 
or cancellation, as the Board may specify. 
41.  Publication  of  Order  of  Suspension  or  Cancellation.─The  order  of  suspension  or cancellation 
of certificate of registration, passed under sub-regulation (3) of regulation (39) shall be published by the Board 
in at least two daily newspapers. 
42. Appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal.─Any person aggrieved by an order of the Board made, 
on and after the commencement of the Securities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1999, (i.e., after 16th 
December 1999), under these regulations may prefer an appeal to a Sec urities Appellate Tribunal having 
jurisdiction in the matter. [Prior to this, regulation 42 as amended  by the SEBI (Appeal to Securities 
Appellate Tribunal) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2000, w.e.f. 28.03.2000, it read as follows: 
42. Appeal to the Central Government.─Any person aggrieved by an order of the Board under these 
Regulations; 
(a) Suspending a certificate of registration; (b) Cancelling certificate of registration, 
may prefer an appeal to the Central Government against such order, in accordance with the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Appeal to Central Government) Rules, 1993].” 
82 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17 -04-2020.

[Page 52]
Page 52 of 78 
of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may  be specified 
but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects 
relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live 
environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets. 
 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to 
the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including 
conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. 
 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means 
a live testing environment where new products, processes, services, business 
models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified 
period of time, for furthering innovation in the securitie s market, subject to such 
conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
FIRST SCHEDULE 
FORM A 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(CREDIT RATING AGENCIES) REGULATIONS, 1999 
[83[REGULATION 3(3)]] 
84[APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF CERTIFICATE OF  
REGISTRATION] 
NAME OF APPLICANT 
 
 
CONTACT NAME: 
                                                           
83 Substituted for the words “Regulation 3(3)/Regulation 8A(3)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-
12-2016. Prior to this, the words “Regulation 3(3)/Regulation 8A(3)” was substituted for “Regulation 3(3)” by 
the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. 
84 Substituted for the words “ Application for Grant of Certificate of Initial/ Permanent Registration ” by the 
Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain Intermediaries) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to this, the words “Application for Grant of Certificate 
of Initial/ Permanent Registration” were substituted for “APPLIC ATION FOR GRANT OF C ERTIFICATE / 
RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE” by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 
05.07.2011.

[Page 53]
Page 53 of 78 
TELEPHONE NO: 
FAX NO: 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING UP FORM -  
1.  Applicants must submit to the Board a completed application form together 
with appropriate supporting documents. Supporting  documents should be 
85[self-attested]. 
2.  This application form should be filled in accordance with the regulations.  
3. Application for registration will be considered, only if it is complete in all respects. 
4.  All answers must be typed.  
5. Information which needs to be supplied in more detail may be given on separate 
sheets which should be attached to the application form. 
6.  All signatures on the application must be original.  
7.  Every page of the form as well as every additional sheet must be initialed by 
the authorised signatory of the applicant. 
 
 
1.0 PARTICULARS OF THE APPLICANT  
1.1 Name,  address  of  the  registered  office,  address  for  correspondence, 
telephone number(s), fax number(s)  and name of the contact person of the 
company. Address of branch offices, if any. 
1.2 Date  of  incorporation  of  the  Applicant  company  (enclose  certificate  of 
incorporation and memorandum and articles of association).  Specify the 
following: 
(a) Objects (Main & Ancillary) of the Applicant company  
(b) Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid up capital  
1.3 Category to which the Applicant company belongs to:] 
(a) Limited company - Private/Public. 
(b) Unlimited company. 
                                                           
85 Substituted for the words “attested as true by a notary public” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Attestation of Documents) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 28-11-2024.

[Page 54]
Page 54 of 78 
If listed, names of Stock Exchanges and latest share price to be given.  
1.4 Category to which the Applicant company belongs to (refer regulation 3) 
(a) Company already in the business of undertaking rating activities 
(b) Company proposing to undertake rating activities for the first time.   
 
2.0 ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA  
2.1 Category to which the promoter(s) of the Applicant company belong to (refer 
regulation 4). 
2.2 Name the promoters and indicate their shareholding in the company.  
2.3 Enclose a Chartered Accountant’s certificate certifying the continuous net 
worth of Rs.100 crores for five years, in case the promoter referred to in 
regulation 4(e). 
2.4 Net worth of the company as per the last audited accounts not earlier than 
three months from the date of application [refer regulation 5 (c)]. Enclose a 
Chartered Accountant’s certificate certifying the same. 
 
 
3.0 PARTICULARS OF DIRECTORS/KEY PERSONNEL  
3.1 Particulars   of   Directors   of   the   company,   which   shall   include   name, 
qualification, experience, shareholding in the company and directorship in other 
companies. 
3.2 Particulars  of Key  Personnel  of the  company,  which  shall  include  name, 
designation in the company, qualification, previous positions held, experience, 
date of appointment in the company and functional areas. 
 
 
4.0 INFRASTRUCTURE  
4.1 Details of infrastructure including computing facilities, facilities for research 
and database  available   with   the  company   and   whether   the  existing 
infrastructure is adequate to carry on the rating activities proposed to be 
undertaken by the company. Any further plan  for additional/ improved 
infrastructure to be indicated.

[Page 55]
Page 55 of 78 
5.0 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS  
5.1 List of major shareholders (holding 5% and above of applicant directly or 
along with associates) 
Shareholding as on:    
 
 
 
 
 
Name of shareholder No. of Shares held % age of total paid up  
capital of the company 
   
 
 
6.0 ASSOCIATE CONCERNS  
6.1 Particulars  of  associate  companies/concerns  which  shall  include  name, 
address, type of activity handled, nature of interest of the Applicant company 
in the associate, nature of interest  of promoter(s)  of the  applicant in the 
associate. 
6.2 Whether the Board has granted/ refused registration as credit rating agency 
to any associate of the applicant. Give the details like date of application, date 
of refusal/registration, reasons for refusal etc. 
 
 
7.0 BUSINESS INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY  
7.1 History, major events and present activities. Details of Experience in Credit  
Rating activities and other related activities  
7.2 If the company is proposing to engage in credit rating activities for the first 
time, business plan of the company with projected volume of activities and 
income for which registration is sought to be specifically given. 
7.3 Securities Rating activities handled during the last three years as per the  
table below:  
Name of  
Client 
Type of  
security 
Size  of  
issue 
Year of  
Issue 
Security/Instrument  
rated 
listed/unlisted 
      
7.4 Details of other rating activities undertaken during last three years.

[Page 56]
Page 56 of 78 
7.5 Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services rendered 
by the applicant. 
 
 
8.0 FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE APPLICANT  
8.1 Net worth (Rs. In Lacs)  
Items Year prior to the preceding  
year of the current year 
Preceding  
year 
Current  
year 
(a) Paid-up capital    
(b) Free reserves  
(excluding 
revaluation 
reserves) 
   
Total (a) + (b)    
    
 
 
 
 
(c) Accumulated  
losses 
   
(d) Deferred  
revenue 
expenditure not 
written off. 
   
Net worth (a)+(b)-  
(c)-(d) 
   
8.2 Please  enclose  audited  annual  accounts  for the  last  three  years.  Where  
unaudited reports are submitted, give reasons. If minimum networth

[Page 57]
Page 57 of 78 
requirement  has  been  met  after  last  audited  annual  accounts,  audited 
statement of accounts of a later date also be submitted. 
8.3 Name and Address of the Principal bankers of the Applicant company.  
8.4 Name and address of the Auditors.   
 
9.0 OTHER INFORMATION  
9.1 Details of all pending litigations against the applicant company, directors and 
employees: 
Nature of dispute Name of the party Status   
 
9.2 Indictment or involvement in any fraud or economic offences by the applicant 
or any of its Directors, or key managerial Personnel, in the last three years. 
 
 
 
 
10.0 DECLARATION  
10.1 Give the following declarations signed by two directors: 
I/We hereby apply for registration. 
I/We warrant that I/We have truthfully and fully answered the questions above 
and provided all the information which might reasonably be considered 
relevant for the purposes of my registration. 
I/We  declare  that  the  information  supplied  in  the  application  form  is 
complete and correct. 
 
 
For and on behalf of   
 
(Name of Applicant)   
 
Director Director

[Page 58]
Page 58 of 78 
Name in Block Letters Name in Block Letters   
 
 
 
Date Date   
 
 
 
FORM 
B  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(CREDIT RATING AGENCIES) REGULATIONS, 
1999 [86[REGULATION 8 (1)87[***] ]] 
 
 
[88[CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION]]  
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the rules and 
regulations made thereunder the  Board hereby grants a certificate of 
registration to                                                       as a credit rating agency 
in accordance with and subject to the conditions in the regulations to carry out 
the activity of the credit rating agency:- 
II.  Registration Code for the credit rating agency is CRA/ / / 
89[III. This certificate of registration shall be valid unless it is suspended or 
cancelled by the Board.] 
 
 
                                                           
86 Substituted for “REGUL ATION 8(1)” by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations,  
2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011 
87 The words “/Regulation 8A(6)” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions 
Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
88 Substituted for the words “ Certificate of Initial / Permanent Registration ” by the Securities and  Exchange 
Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016 w. e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to this the words “” sub stituted the words “CERTIF ICATE OF 
REGISTRATION”, by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. 
89 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to the substitution, paragraph III read 
as under: 
“III. This certificate of registration shall be valid from ….. to …. / for permanent, unless su spended or 
cancelled by the Board.” 
Prior to the above, paragraph III was substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. Prior to its substitution, Paragraph III read as under: 
“This certificate shall be valid from   to   and may be ren ewed as sp ecified in regulati on 10  of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999.”

[Page 59]
Page 59 of 78 
Place:  
Date By 
Order  
Sd/- 
 
 
For and on behalf of  
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECOND SCHEDULE  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(CREDIT RATING AGENCIES) REGULATIONS, 1999 
[90[See Regulations 3(3), 8(3), 8(4) 91[***] ]] FEES 
 
92[ PART A  
AMOUNT TO BE PAID AS FEES 
 
1. Application fee for grant of  
93[***] registration 
Rs.50,000 
                                                           
90 Substituted for “REGUL ATIONS 3(3), 8(2), 10(3)”  by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011 
91 The words “8A(3) and 8A(7)” were omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In 
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
92 Part A substituted, Ibid. Prior to its substitution, Part A as substituted by the SEBI (Credit 
Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 07.09.2006 read as under: 
“PART A 
AMOUNT TO BE PAID AS FEES 
  (Rs.)  
Application fee  50,000/- Registration 
fee for grant of certificate 20,00,000/- Renewal fees
 10,00,000/- 
” 
93 The words “initial or permanent” were omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In 
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.

[Page 60]
Page 60 of 78 
2. 94[***] Registration fee Rs. 26,66, 700 
3. 95 [ ***  
 
***] 
4. 96[Recurring] registration fee 
(for every three years) 
Rs.97[15,00,000] 
 
98[PART 
B  
1. A credit  rating agency who has been granted certificate of 99[***] registration 
under regulation 8(1),   shall pay fees, as specified under item 2 of Part A, 
within fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board. 
2. 100[ * * * ] 
3. 101[A credit rating agency who has been granted certificate of registration, to 
keep its registration in force, shall pay fee as specified under item 4 of Part A, 
for every three years from the sixth year of the date of grant of certificate of 
                                                           
94 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
95 Omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission Item 3 read as under:  
“Balance fee for credit rating agencies referred under sub- regulation (3) of regulation 8 - Rs. 6,66,700” 
96 Substituted for the word “permanent” by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions 
Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
97 Substituted for f igure "1 0,00,000" by SE BI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Re gulations, 2014, w.e.f. 
23.05.2014. 
98 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. Prior 
to its substitution Part B read as under: 
“ The fees specified above shall be paid by way of a bank draft in favour of "Securities and Exchange Board of 
India" payable at Mumbai.” 
99 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
100 Omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission paragraph 2 read as under: 
“(2) A credit rating agency referred to under sub- regulation (3) of regulation 8, shall pay fee, as specified 
under item 3 of Part A, within a period of three months before completion of the period of three years 
from the date of grant of certificate of initial registration, or within a period of three months from the date of 
notification of these regulations, as the case may be.” 
101 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission paragraph 3 read as under: 
“(3) A credit rating agency who has been granted certificate of permanent registration, to keep its registration 
in force, shall pay fee as specified under item 4 of Part A, for every three years from the sixth year from the 
date of grant of certificate of initial registration, or from completion of the period of renewed certificate of 
registration, as the case may be.”

[Page 61]
Page 61 of 78 
registration or of the date of grant of certificate of initial registration granted 
prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, as the case may be.]  
102[4. The fee specified above shall be paid by way of direct credit in the bank 
account through online payment using SEBI payment gateway.] 
 103[5. The (recurring) registration fee payable every three years as specified 
under item no. 4 of Part A, shall be paid by the credit rating agency one month 
before the expiry of the block for which the fee has been paid.] 
 
  
104[THIRD 
SCHEDULE  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR CREDIT RATING 
AGENCIES [REGULATION 13] 
CODE OF 
CONDUCT 
1.  A  credit  rating  agency  shall  make  all  efforts  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors. 
2. A credit  rating agency, in the conduct of its  business, shall observe high 
standards of integrity, dignity and fairness in the conduct of its business. 
3. A credit  rating agency shall fulfill its obligations in a prompt, ethical and 
professional manner. 
4.  A credit rating agency shall at all times exercise due diligence, ensure proper 
care and exercise independent professional judgment in order to achieve and 
                                                           
102 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) (Regulations) 2021 w.e.f. 
05-05-2021. Prior to substitution the clause read as: 
“4. The fee specified above shall be paid by way of direct credit in the bank account through 
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or by  way of a bank draft in favour of “Securities 
and Exchange Board of India” payable at Mumbai.” 
 
103 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) (Regulations) 2021 w.e.f. 05-
05-2021. 
104 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Second Amendment) Regulation, 2003 w.e.f. 01.10.2003. 
Earlier it was amended by the SEBI (Investment Advise by Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations 2001, 
w.e.f. 29.05.2001

[Page 62]
Page 62 of 78 
maintain objectivity and independence in the rating process. 
5. A credit  rating agency shall have a reasonable and adequate basis  for 
performing rating evaluations, with the support of appropriate  and in depth 
rating researches. It shall also maintain records to support its decisions. 
6. A credit rating agency shall have in place a rating process that reflects consistent 
and international rating standards. 
7.  A credit rating agency shall not indulge in any unfair competition nor shall it 
wean away the clients of any other rating agency on assurance of higher rating. 
8.  A credit rating agency shall keep track of all important changes relating to the 
client companies and shall develop efficient and responsive systems to yield 
timely and accurate ratings. Further a credit rating agency shall also monitor 
closely  all  relevant  factors  that  might  affect  the  creditworthiness  of  the 
issuers. 
9.  A credit rating agency shall disclose its rating methodology to clients, users and 
the public. 
10. A credit rating agency shall, wherever necessary, disclose to the clients, 
possible sources of conflict of duties and interests, which could impair its 
ability to make fair, objective and unbiased ratings. Further it shall ensure that 
no conflict of interest  exists between any member of its  rating committee 
participating in the rating analysis, and that of its client. 
11. A credit rating agency shall not make any exaggerated statement, whether 
oral or written, to the client either about its qualification or its capability to render 
certain services or its achievements with regard to the services rendered to  
other clients. 
12. A credit rating agency shall not make any untrue statement, suppress any 
material  fact  or  make  any  misrepresentation  in  any  documents,  reports, 
papers or information furnished to the board, stock exchange or public at 
large. 
13. A credit rating agency shall ensure that the Board is promptly informed about 
any action, legal proceedings etc., initi ated against it alleging any material 
breach or non-compliance by it, of any law, rules, regulations and directions 
of the Board or of any other regulatory body.

[Page 63]
Page 63 of 78 
14. A credit rating agency shall maintain an appropriate level of knowledge and 
competence and abide by the provisions of the Act, regulations and circulars, 
which may be applicable and relevant to the activities carried on by the credit 
rating agency. The credit rating agency shall also comply with award of the 
Ombudsman passed under the Securities and Exchange Board  of India 
(Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003. 
15. A credit rating agency shall ensure that there is no misuse of any privileged 
information including prior knowledge of rating decisions or changes. 
16. (a) A credit rating agency or any of his employees shall not render, directly or 
indirectly any investment advice about any security in the publi cly accessible 
media. 
(b) A credit rating agency shall not offer fee-based services to the rated 
entities, beyond credit ratings and research. 
17. A credit rating agency shall ensure that any change in registration status/any 
penal action taken by board or any material change in financials  which may 
adversely affect the interests of clients/investors is promptly informed to the 
clients and any business remaining outstanding is transferred to another 
registered person in accordance with any instructions of the  affected 
clients/investors. 
18. A credit rating agency shall maintain an arm’s length relationship between its 
credit rating activity and any other activity. 
19. A credit rating agency shall develop its own internal code of conduct for 
governing its internal operations and laying down its standards of appropriate 
conduct for its employees and officers in the carrying out of their duties within 
the credit rating agency and as a part of the industry. Such a code may 
extend to  the  maintenance  of  professional  excellence  and  standards, 
integrity,   confidentiality,   objectivity,   avoidance   of   conflict   of   interests, 
disclosure of shareholdings and interests, etc. Such a code shall also provide 
for procedures and guidelines in relation to the establishment and conduct of 
rating committees and duties  of the office rs and employees serving on su ch 
committees. 
20. A credit rating agency shall provide adequate freedom and powers to its

[Page 64]
Page 64 of 78 
compliance officer for the effective discharge of his duties. 
21. A credit rating agency shall ensure that the senior management, particularly 
decision makers have access to all relevant information about the business 
on a timely basis. 
22. A credit rating agency shall ensure that good corporate policies and corporate 
governance are in place. 
23. A credit rating agency shall not, generally and particularly in respect of issue 
of securities rated by it, be party to or instrumental for— 
(a) creation of false market;  
(b) price rigging or manipulation; or  
(c) dissemination of any unpublished price sensitive information in respect of 
securities which  are  listed  and  proposed  to  be  listed  in  any  stock 
exchange, unless required, as part of rationale for the rating accorded. 
 
105[FOURTH SCHEDULE 
[See regulation 28A] 
APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER IVA 
S. No. 
Location of 
ESG Rating 
Provider 
Asset class 
in securities 
market 
Location of 
ESG Rating 
User 
Applicability  
of 
regulations 
1.  India Indian India Yes  
2.  India Indian Outside India No 
3.  India Global India Yes 
4.  Outside India Indian India Yes 
5.  Outside India Indian Outside India No 
6.  Outside India Global India No  
 
 
 
 
                                                           
105 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2023, w.e.f. 4.07.2023.

[Page 65]
Page 65 of 78 
FIFTH SCHEDULE 
[See regulations 28D and 28G] 
FORMS 
FORM A 
Application for grant of Certificate of Registration as an ESG 
rating provider 
NAME OF THE APPLICANT: 
NAME OF THE COMPLIANCE OFFICER: 
MOBILE NUMDER: 
EMAIL ID: 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING UP FORM - 
(a) Applicants must submit, to the Board, a completed application form together 
with appropriate supporting documents.  
(b) This application form should be filled in accordance with the regulations. 
(c) Application for registration will be considered, only if it is complete in all 
respects. 
(d) All answers must be typed. 
(e) Information which needs to be supplied in detail may be given on separate 
sheets which should be attached with the application form. 
(f) All signatures on the application must be original. 
(g) Every page of the form as well as every additional sheet must be signed 
by the authorized signatory of the applicant. 
(h) Application must be accompanied by an application fee as specified in Sixth 
Schedule to these regulations.

[Page 66]
Page 66 of 78 
(i) All mentions of ‘ratings’ in this Schedule shall be deemed to refer to ESG 
ratings, unless the context otherwise specifies. 
1. PARTICULARS OF THE APPLICANT 
1.1. Name, address of the registered office, address for correspondence, 
mobile number(s), email address of the Applicant.  Address of branch 
offices, if any. 
1.2. Name, mobile number and email address of the contact person. 
1.3. Category of ESG rating provider for which the application is made. 
1.4. If the application is for Category I, please provide the following 
information, as applicable: 
1.4.1. Details of the intermediary registered with the Board, of which 
the applicant is a subsidiary, or of ESG rating provider registered 
with any foreign regulatory authority in a Financial Action Task 
Force (FATF) member jurisdiction and recognized under their 
law. 
1.4.2. Details of the promoters of the applicant. 
1.5. Please provide the following information regarding the applicant’s 
operations pertaining to its business of providing ESG ratings:  
1.5.1. business plan, and 
1.5.2. a target breakeven date, and 
1.5.3. target revenue, and target number of clients it plans to service, 
within two years of obtaining a certificate, and  
1.5.4. cumulative cash losses that the applicant projects to incur until 
the target breakeven date, along with the activities or areas 
wherein such losses shall be incurred;

[Page 67]
Page 67 of 78 
1.6. Liquid Net -worth of the applicant and a declaration that (i) after 
obtaining its registration with SEBI, the ESG Rating Provider may draw 
down an amount equivalent to paragraph 1.5.4 above only on the areas 
specified under the business plan submitted at the time of application; 
and (ii) this amount shall not be used in any other man ner, except for 
incurring such expense or maintained as part of the liquid net worth. 
1.7. Date of  incorporation of the applicant (enclose certificate of 
incorporation and memorandum and articles of association). Specify 
the following: 
1.7.1. Objects (Main and Ancillary) of the applicant company; and 
1.7.2. Authorized, issued, subscribed and paid-up capital. 
1.8. Structure of the applicant, whether it is incorporated as a company 
limited by shares or guarantee, private or public, or as an unlimited 
company. 
1.9. Whether the applicant is listed. If yes, names of Stock Exchanges and 
latest share price to be given. 
1.10. Whether the Applicant or its associates are registered with the Board 
or any other regulatory authority in any capacity, along with details of 
registration. 
1.11. Whether the applicant belongs to or is related to: 
1.11.1. any person already in the business of undertaking ESG 
rating activities 
1.11.2. any person proposing to undertake ESG rating activities 
for the first time. 
2. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA 
2.1. Category under which the promoter(s) of the applicant belong to (refer

[Page 68]
Page 68 of 78 
regulation 28E). 
2.2. Names of the promoters and their shareholding in the applicant. 
2.3. Enclose a certificate obtained from a Chartered Accountant certifying 
the net worth requirements of the promoter, if applicable. 
2.4. Liquid net worth of the applicant as per the last audited accounts, not 
earlier than three months from the date of application along with a 
certificate obtained from a Chartered Accountant certifying the same. 
3. PARTICULARS OF DIRECTORS/KEY PERSONNEL 
3.1. Particulars of directors of the applicant, including the name, 
qualification, experience, shareholding in the applicant and directorship 
in other bodies corporate along with copies of identity proofs and 
address proofs of the directors. 
3.2. Particulars of key personnel of the applicant, including the name, 
designation in the applicant, qualification, and previous positions held, 
experience, date of appointment in the applicant and functional areas. 
4. INFRASTRUCTURE 
4.1. Details of infrastructure including computing facilities, office space, 
equipment, manpower, facilities for research and database available 
with the company and whether the existing infrastructure is adequate 
to carry on the rating activities proposed to b e undertaken by the 
applicant.  
4.2. Any further plan for additional/ improved infrastructure, and if 
applicable, declaration of remote work environment, if any,  to be 
indicated. 
5. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 
5.1. List of major shareholders (holding five per cent. or more

[Page 69]
Page 69 of 78 
shareholding in the applicant, directly or along with associates) in the 
format provided below: 
 
 
Shareholding as on: 
 
 
 
6. ASSOCIATE CONCERNS 
6.1. Particulars of associate companies/concerns which shall include 
name, address, type of activity handled, nature of interest of the 
applicant in the associate, nature of interest of promoter(s) of the 
applicant in the associate. 
6.2. Whether the Board has granted or refused registration  as ESG rating 
provider to any associate of the applicant along with the details of date 
of application, date of refusal/registration, reasons for refusal etc. 
7. BUSINESS INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 
7.1. History, major events and present activities along with deta ils of 
experience in rating activities and other related activities. 
7.2. If the applicant is proposing to engage in ESG rating activities for the 
first time, business plan of the company with projected volume of 
activities and income for which registration is sought. 
7.3. Rating activities handled during the last three years as per the  table 
below: 
Name of 
shareholder 
No. of Shares held %age of total 
paid up capital 
of the company

[Page 70]
Page 70 of 78 
Name of 
Client 
Size of 
Issue 
Year of 
Issue 
Security/Instrument 
Rated 
Listed/unlist
ed 
     
7.4. Details of other rating activities undertaken during last three years. 
7.5. Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services 
rendered by the applicant. 
8. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE APPLICANT 
8.1. Liquid Net worth (rupees in lakhs) 
Items Year prior to the 
preceding year of 
the current year 
Preceding 
year 
Current 
year 
(a) Paid-up equity 
capital 
   
(b) Free reserves 
(excluding reserves 
created out of 
revaluation) 
   
Total (a) + (b)    
(c) Accumulated 
Losses  
   
(d) Deferred 
expenditure not written 
off, including

[Page 71]
Page 71 of 78 
Items Year prior to the 
preceding year of 
the current year 
Preceding 
year 
Current 
year 
miscellaneous 
expenses not written 
off 
Net worth (a) + (b) - 
(c) – (d) 
   
8.2. Please enclose audited annual accounts for the last three years. Where 
unaudited reports are submitted, give reasons. If minimum liquid net 
worth Requirement has been met after last audited annual accounts, 
audited statement of accounts of a later date shall also be submitted. 
8.3. Provide a declaration that the liquid net worth of the applicant is in 
compliance with these regulations. Submit relevant documentation to 
support the same. 
8.4. Name and address of the principal bankers of the applicant. 
8.5. Name and address of the auditors. 
9. OTHER INFORMATION 
9.1. Details of all pending litigation against the applicant company, 
directors and employees: 
Nature of dispute Name of the party Status 
 
9.2. Indictment or involvement in any legal proceeding connected  with the 
securities market by the applicant or any of its directors, or key 
managerial personnel in the last three years;

[Page 72]
Page 72 of 78 
9.3. Details of previous application to the Board as an ESG rating provider, 
if any. 
9.4. If the applicant has, in the past, been deemed not ‘fit and proper’ by the 
Board, please provide relevant details of the same. 
10. DECLARATION 
10.1. Give the following declarations signed by two directors:  
I/We hereby apply for a certificate. 
I/We warrant that I/We have truthfully and fully answered the questions 
above and provided all the information which might reasonably be 
considered relevant for the purposes of my registration. 
 
I/We declare that the information supplied in the application form is 
complete and correct. 
For and on behalf of 
 
(Name of Applicant) 
 Director       Director 
 Name in Block Letters Name in Block Letters 
Date       Date

[Page 73]
Page 73 of 78 
FORM – B 
Certificate of Registration as an ESG rating provider 
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1) of section 12 of the  
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), read with the 
rules and regulations made thereunder, the Board hereby grants a certificate 
of registration to _______________________________________________ 
as an Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) rating provider, under 
Category-___________, in accordance with and subject to the conditions in 
the regulations to carry out the activity of the ESG rating provider: - 
II. Registration Code for the ESG rating provider is  
IN/ERP/(Category)/__________. 
III. This certificate of registration shall be valid till it is suspended or cancelled by 
the Board. 
 
Place: 
Date By Order 
__________ 
 
 For and on behalf of  
Securities and Exchange Board of India

[Page 74]
Page 74 of 78 
SIXTH SCHEDULE 
[See regulations 28C and 28G] 
FEES FOR ESG RATING PROVIDERS 
PART A 
Amount to be paid as fees 
PART B 
1. An ESG rating provider who has been granted a certificate, shall pay fees, as 
specified under item 2 of Part A, within fifteen days from the date of receipt of 
intimation from the Board. 
2. An ESG rating provider who has been granted a certificate shall, to  keep its 
Sr. No. Particulars Fees payable 
1. Application fee for grant of 
registration 
  50,000 
2. Registration Fees 
(a) Category I 
(b) Category II 
 
(a) 10,00,000 
(b) 1,00,000 
3.  Recurring registration fee 
(For every three years) 
(a) Category I 
(b) Category II 
 
 
(a) 5,00,000 
(b) 50,000

[Page 75]
Page 75 of 78 
registration in force, pay fee as specified under item 3 of Part A, every three 
years from the sixth year of the date of grant of certificate. 
3. The fee specified above shall be paid by way of direct credit in the bank  
account through online payment using SEBI payment gateway. 
4. The (recurring) registration fee payable every three years as specified under 
paragraph 3 of Part A, shall be paid by the ESG rating provider one month 
prior to the expiry of the period, for which the fee has been paid. 
SEVENTH SCHEDULE 
[See regulation 28J] 
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR ESG RATING PROVIDERS 
1. An ESG rating provider shall make all efforts to protect the interests of the 
investors. 
2. An ESG rating provider, in the conduct of its business, shall observe high 
standards of integrity, dignity and fairness in the conduct of its business. 
3. An ESG rating provider shall fulfil its obligations in a prompt, ethical and 
professional manner. 
4. An ESG rating provider shall, at all times, exercise due diligence, ensure 
proper care and exercise independent professional judgment in order to 
achieve and maintain objectivity and independence in the ESG rating 
process. 
5. An ESG rating provider shall maintain records to support its decisions. 
6. An ESG rating provider shall adopt and implement ESG rating processes that 
reflect consistent rating standards. 
7. An ESG rating provider shall not indulge in any unfair competition, nor shall it 
induce or induct the clients of any other ESG rating provider on assurance of

[Page 76]
Page 76 of 78 
higher or lower ESG rating. 
8. An ESG rating provider shall keep track of all important changes relating to 
the issuers or securities it rates and shall develop efficient and responsive 
systems to yield timely and accurate ratings.  
9. An ESG ra ting provider shall also monitor closely all relevant factors that 
might affect the environmental, social or governance characteristics of the 
rated issuers or their securities. 
10. An ESG rating provider shall, wherever necessary, disclose to the client, all 
possible sources of conflict of duties and interests, which could impair its 
ability to make fair, objective and unbiased ratings.  
11. An ESG rating provider shall ensure that no conflict of interest exists between 
any member participating in the rating analysis, and that of the person who is 
being rated or whose securities are being rated. 
12. An ESG rating provider shall not make any exaggerated statement, whether 
oral or written, to the client either about its qualification or its capability to 
render any services or its achievements with regard to the services rendered 
to other clients. 
13. An ESG rating provider shall not make any untrue statement, suppress any 
material fact or make any misrepresentation in any documents, reports, 
papers or information furnished t o the Board, stock exchange or public at 
large. 
14. An ESG rating provider shall promptly inform the Board about any action, 
legal proceedings etc., initiated against it alleging any material breach or non-
compliance by it, of any of the laws, rules, regulatio ns to which it is subject, 
and of directions of the Board or of any other regulatory body. 
15. An ESG rating provider shall maintain an appropriate level of knowledge and 
competence and abide by the provisions of the Act, regulations and circulars, 
which may be applicable and relevant to the activities carried on by the ESG

[Page 77]
Page 77 of 78 
rating provider.  
16. An ESG rating provider shall ensure that there is no misuse of any privileged 
information including prior knowledge of ESG rating decisions or changes. 
17. An ESG rating provid er or any of its employees shall not render, directly or 
indirectly any investment advice about any security being rated or about any 
rated person or the person whose securities are rated in publicly accessible 
media. 
18. An ESG rating provider shall ensure that any change in registration status or 
any material change in financials or in case of any penal action taken by the 
Board which may adversely affect the interests of clients or investors is 
promptly informed to the clients and any business remaining outs tanding is 
transferred to another registered person in accordance with any instructions 
of the affected clients or investors. 
19. An ESG rating provider shall maintain an arm’s length relationship between 
its ESG rating activity and any other activity. 
20. An ESG rating provider shall develop its own internal code of conduct for 
governing its internal operations and laying down its standards of appropriate 
conduct for its employees and officers in the carrying out of their duties within 
the ESG rating provider and as a part of the industry. Such a code shall 
provide for the maintenance of professional excellence and standards, 
integrity, confidentiality, objectivity, avoidance of conflict of interests, 
disclosure of shareholdings and interests, etc. Such a code shall also provide 
for procedures and guidelines in relation to the establishment and conduct of 
the officers and employees serving in the rating process. 
21. An ESG rating provider shall provide adequately empower its compliance 
officer to enable him or her to effectively discharge his duties. 
22. An ESG rating provider shall ensure that the senior management, particularly 
decision makers, have access to all relevant information about its business

[Page 78]
Page 78 of 78 
on a timely basis. 
23. An ESG rating provider shall ensure that good corporate policies and 
corporate governance are adopted and followed. 
24. ESG rating provider shall not, generally and particularly, in respect of issuers 
or securities rated by it, be party to or instrumental for— 
(a) creation of false market; 
(b) price rigging or manipulation; or 
(c) dissemination of any unpublished price sensitive information in respect of  
securities which are listed and proposed to be listed in any stock exchange, 
unless required, as part of rationale for the rating accorded.]
