[Page 1]
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA
EXTRAORDINARY
PART  III – SECTION 4
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA
NOTIFICATION
Mumbai, the 9th August, 2021
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA
(ISSUE AND LISTING OF NON-CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES) REGULATIONS, 2021
No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/39. - In exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of
Section 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Securities and
Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regulations, namely: - 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021.
(2) These regulations shall come into force on the seventh day from the date of its
publication in the Official Gazette. 
Definitions 
2. (1)  In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) “abridged prospectus" means a memorandum accompanying the application form for a
public issue containing such salient features of a prospectus as specified by the Board; 
(b) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(c) “advertisement” means and includes notices, brochures, pamphlets, show cards,
catalogues, hoardings, placards, posters, insertions in newspaper, pictures, films,
websites or in any other print or digital medium, radio, television programmes through
any electronic medium; 
(d) “arranger”, in relation to a private placement of non-convertible securities, means a
merchant banker or a broker registered with the Board, a primary dealer registered with
Reserve Bank of India, who, prior to acting as an arranger in an issue of non-
convertible securities is appointed by the issuer to act as such on behalf of the persons
eligible to participate on the electronic book provider platform; 
(e)  “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under the
provisions of Section 3 of the Act;
(f) “book building” means a process undertaken to elicit demand and to assess the price
for determination of the quantum or value of the non-convertible securities, in
Page 1 of 81

[Page 2]
accordance with these regulations;  
(g) ‘commercial paper’ means commercial paper as defined by the Reserve Bank of India; 
(h) "credit rating agency" means a Credit Rating Agency registered with the Board;
(i) “day count convention” is the system used to determine the number of days and the
amount of accrued interest/dividend between two interest/dividend payment dates;
(j) “debenture trustee” means a debenture trustee registered with the Board;
(k) “debt securities” means non-convertible debt securities with a fixed maturity period
which create or acknowledge indebtedness and includes debentures, bonds or any
other security whether constituting a charge on the assets/ properties or not, but
excludes security receipts, securitized debt instruments, money market instruments
regulated by the Reserve Bank of India, and bonds issued by the Government or such
other bodies as may be specified by the Board; 
(l) “depository” means a depository registered with the Board;
(m) “designated stock exchange” means a recognised stock exchange, in which non-
convertible securities and/or commercial paper of the issuer are listed or proposed to be
listed and which is chosen by the issuer for the purposes of a particular issue under
these regulations;
(n) “draft offer document” means a draft prospectus or draft shelf prospectus filed with the
stock exchange(s) and the Board in relation to a public issue of debt securities or non-
convertible redeemable preference shares under these regulations; 
(o) “electronic book provider platform” means an electronic platform for private placement
of non-convertible securities provided by a recognized stock exchange(s) or a
recognised depository, pursuant to obtaining approval from the Board;
1[(oa) Environment, Social and Governance Debt Securities or “ESG Debt Securities” means
green debt securities, social bonds, sustainability bonds, sustainability-linked bonds, or
any other type of bonds, by whatever name called, that are issued in accordance with
such international frameworks as adapted or adjusted to suit Indian requirements that
are specified by the Board from time to time, and any other securities as specified by the
Board.]
(p) “fugitive economic offender” shall mean an individual who is declared as a fugitive
economic offender under Section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018 (17
of 2018);
2[“(q) “Green debt security” means a debt security issued for raising funds subject to the
1 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 11-12-2024.
2 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 02-02-2023. Prior to substitution, clause (q) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 read as: 
“green debt security” means a debt security issued for raising funds that are to be utilised for project(s) and/or asset(s) falling 
under any of the following categories, subject to the conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time:
(i)Renewable and sustainable energy including wind, solar, bioenergy, other sources of energy which use clean technology,
(ii) Clean transportation including mass/public transportation,
(iii) Sustainable water management including clean and/or drinking water, water recycling,
(iv) Climate change adaptation,
(v) Energy efficiency including efficient and green buildings,
(vi) Sustainable waste management including recycling, waste to energy, efficient disposal of wastage,
(vii) Sustainable land use including sustainable forestry and agriculture, afforestation,
(viii) Biodiversity conservation, or
(ix) a category as may be specified by the Board, from time to time.”
Page 2 of 81

[Page 3]
conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time, to be utilised for
project(s) and/ or asset(s) falling under any of the following categories:
(i) renewable and sustainable energy including wind, bioenergy, other sources of
energy which use clean technology,
(ii) clean transportation including mass/public transportation,
(iii) climate change adaptation including efforts to make infrastructure more resilient
to impacts of climate change and information support systems such as climate
observation and early warning systems,
(iv) energy efficiency including efficient and green buildings,
(v) sustainable waste management including recycling, waste to energy, efficient
disposal of wastage,
(vi) sustainable land use including sustainable forestry and agriculture, afforestation,
(vii) biodiversity conservation,
(viii) pollution  prevention  and  control  (including  reduction  of  air  emissions,
greenhouse gas control, soil remediation, waste prevention, waste reduction,
waste recycling and energy efficient or emission efficient waste to energy) and
sectors mentioned under the India Cooling Action Plan launched by the Ministry
of Environment, Forest and Climate Change,
(ix) circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes
(such as the design and introduction of reusable, recyclable and refurbished
materials, components and products, circular tools and services) and/or eco
efficient products,
(x) blue  bonds  which  comprise  of  funds  raised  for  sustainable  water
management including clean water and water recycling, and sustainable
maritime sector including sustainable shipping, sustainable fishing, fully
traceable sustainable seafood, ocean energy and ocean mapping,
(xi) yellow bonds which comprise of funds raised for solar energy generation and
the upstream industries and downstream industries associated with it,
(xii) transition bonds which comprise of funds raised for transitioning to a more
sustainable form of operations, in line with India’s Intended Nationally
Determined Contributions, and 
Explanation: Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) refer to
the climate targets determined by India under the Paris Agreement at the
Conference of Parties 21 in 2015, and at the Conference of Parties 26 in
2021, as revised from time to time.
(xiii) any other category, as may be specified by the Board from time to time.]
(r) “group  companies”  includes  such  companies,  other  than  promoter(s),
subsidiary/subsidiaries, with which there were related party transactions, during the
period for which financial information is disclosed in the offer documents, as covered
under the applicable accounting standards and also other companies as considered
material by the board of the issuer;
(s)  “issuer” means a company or a body corporate or a statutory corporation or a
multilateral institution or a trust registered with the Board as a Real Estate Investment
Trust (REIT) or an Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT), authorised to issue non-
convertible securities and/or commercial paper under the relevant laws and in
accordance with these regulations and seeks to list its non-convertible securities, with
Page 3 of 81

[Page 4]
any recognized stock exchange(s);
3[(sa) “key managerial personnel” means key managerial personnel as defined in sub-section
(51) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);]
(t) “lead manager” means a merchant banker registered with the Board and appointed by
the issuer to manage the public issue of debt securities and/or non-convertible
redeemable preference shares and in case of a book-built issue, the lead manager(s)
appointed by the issuer who act(s) as the book running lead manager(s) for the
purposes of book building;
(u) “listing regulations” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to
time;
(v) "net worth" shall have the same meaning assigned to it under Section 2 of the
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013); 
(w) "non-convertible redeemable preference share" means a preference share which is
redeemable in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (18
of 2013) and does not include a preference share which is convertible into or
exchangeable with equity shares of the issuer at a later date, at the option of the holder
or not; 
(x) “non-convertible  securities”  means  debt  securities,  non-convertible  redeemable
preference  shares,  perpetual  non-cumulative  preference  shares,  perpetual  debt
instruments and any other securities as specified by the Board;
(y) “offer document” means a prospectus, shelf prospectus, tranche prospectus in case of
public issue of debt securities and/or non-convertible redeemable preference shares
and a placement memorandum in case of private placement of non-convertible
securities and includes a draft offer document; 
(z) “perpetual debt instrument" means a perpetual debt instrument issued in accordance
with the guidelines framed by the Reserve Bank of India;
(aa)"perpetual non-cumulative preference share" means a perpetual non-cumulative
preference share issued in accordance with the guidelines framed by the Reserve Bank
of India; 
(bb)“placement memorandum” means a document 4[***]filed with the stock exchange(s) in
relation to an issue of non-convertible securities to be issued on a private placement
basis;
(cc) “private placement” means an offer or invitation to subscribe or issue of non-convertible
securities to a select group of persons by a company (other than by way of public offer),
which satisfies the applicable conditions specified in Section 42 of the Companies Act,
2013 (18 of 2013);
(dd)“prospectus” shall have the same meaning assigned to it under Section 2 of the
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);
(ee)"promoter" shall have the same meaning assigned to it under regulation 2 of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
3 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment)
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023.
4 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment)
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023. Prior to omission, the words and symbol were “including a shelf placement 
memorandum,”.
Page 4 of 81

[Page 5]
Regulations, 2018; 
(ff) “promoter group” shall have the same meaning assigned to it under regulation 2 of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2018;
Explanation: In case of Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) and Infrastructure
Investment Trust (InvIT), ‘promoter’ and ‘promoter group’ shall mean ‘sponsor’ and
‘sponsor group’ as per the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate
Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, respectively;
(gg)“public issue” means an offer or invitation by an issuer to the public to subscribe to its
debt securities and/or non-convertible redeemable preference shares which is not in the
nature of a private placement; 
5[(gga) “retail individual investor” means an individual investor who applies or bids for debt
securities for a value of not more than two lakhs rupees;]
(hh)“schedule" means a schedule annexed to these regulations;
(ii) “secured debt securities” shall mean such debt securities which are secured by creation
of a charge on the properties or assets of the issuer or its subsidiaries or its holding
companies or its associate companies having a value which is sufficient for the due
repayment of principal and payment of interest thereon;
6[(iia) “senior management” shall mean the officers and personnel of the issuer who are
members of its core management team, excluding the Board of Directors, and shall also
comprise all the members of the management one level below the Chief Executive
Officer or Managing Director or Whole Time Director or Manager (including Chief
Executive Officer and Manager, in case they are not part of the Board of Directors) and
shall specifically include the functional heads, by whatever name called and the
Company Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer;]
(jj) 7[***]
(kk) “shelf prospectus" shall have the same meaning assigned to it in Section 31 of the
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);
(ll) “specified” means specified by a general or special order or circular or guidelines issued
under the Act or these regulations; 
(mm) ‘specified securities’ shall have the same meaning assigned to it under the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2018;
(nn)“statutory corporation” means a body corporate formed by a special Act of the Central
or State Legislature;
(oo)“stock exchange” means any recognised stock exchange having nationwide trading
terminals chosen by the issuer on which the non-convertible securities and/or
5 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 21-01-2026.
6 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment)
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023.
7 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment)
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023. Prior to omission, clause (jj) read as under:
““shelf placement memorandum” means a placement memorandum in relation to the debt securities issued on a private placement
basis, in one or more tranches over a certain period, by issuing a tranche placement memorandum and without the requirement of 
issuing a further placement memorandum;”
Page 5 of 81

[Page 6]
commercial paper of an issuer are listed or proposed to be listed for the purpose of a
particular issue of such securities and includes a designated stock exchange;
(pp)8[***]
(qq)“tranche prospectus” means an information memorandum as provided under sub-
section (2) of Section 31 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);  
(rr) “trust deed” means a deed executed between the issuer and the debenture trustee for
the benefit of the holders of the debt securities;
(ss) “wilful defaulter” shall have the same meaning as under regulation (2) of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2018; 
(tt) “working day” means all days on which commercial banks in the city, as specified in the
offer document, are open for business;
Explanation: For the purpose of this definition, in respect of -
(i) Announcement of bid /issue period: 
working day shall mean all days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public
holidays, on which commercial banks in the city as notified in the offer document
are open for business;
(ii) the time period between the bid/ issue closing date and the listing of the non-
convertible securities on the stock exchanges:
working day shall mean all trading days of the stock exchanges for non-
convertible securities, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and bank holidays, as
specified by the Board;  
(2) All other words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations, shall have the
same meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act or the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of
2013) or the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or the Depositories
Act, 1996 (22 of 1996) and/or the rules and regulations made thereunder or any statutory
modification or re-enactment thereto, unless the context requires otherwise.
Applicability
3. Unless otherwise provided, these regulations shall apply to the:
(a) issuance and listing of debt securities and non-convertible redeemable preference
shares by an issuer by way of public issuance;
(b) issuance and listing of non-convertible securities by an issuer issued on private
placement basis which are proposed to be listed; and
(c) listing of commercial paper issued by an issuer in compliance with the guidelines framed
by the Reserve Bank of India.
CHAPTER II
GENERAL CONDITIONS AND ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
8 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment)
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023. Prior to omission, clause (pp) read as under:
““tranche placement memorandum” means a document supplementing the shelf placement memorandum, whereby subscription 
to debt securities is invited by an issuer on a private placement basis;”
Page 6 of 81

[Page 7]
Applicability of this chapter
4. (1) This chapter shall apply to the issuance and listing of:  
(a) debt securities and non-convertible redeemable preference shares by an issuer by way
of public issuance;
(b) non-convertible securities by an issuer on private placement basis.
(2) Unless otherwise provided in these regulations, an issuer making an offer of non-
convertible securities shall satisfy the conditions of these regulations as on:
(a) date of filing of the draft offer document with the Board or stock exchange(s); 
(b) date of filing the offer document with the Board or stock exchange (s), as the case may
be; and,
(c) date of filing the offer document with the Registrar of Companies. 
Eligible issuers 
5. (1) No issuer shall make an issue of non-convertible securities if as on the date of filing of
draft offer document or offer document: 
(a) the issuer, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors are debarred from
accessing the securities market or dealing in securities by the Board; 
(b) any of the promoters or directors of the issuer is a promoter or director of another
company which is debarred from accessing the securities market or dealing in securities
by the Board; 
(c) the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter;
(d) any of the promoters or whole-time directors of the issuer is a promoter or whole-time
director of another company which is a wilful defaulter;
(e) any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender; or
(f) any fine or penalties levied by the Board /Stock Exchanges is pending to be paid by the
issuer at the time of filing the offer document:
Provided that the:
(i) restrictions mentioned at (b) and (d) above shall not be applicable in case of a
person who was appointed as a director only by virtue of nomination by a
debenture trustee in other company.
(ii) restrictions mentioned in (a) and (b) above shall not be applicable if the period
of debarment is over as on date of filing of the draft offer document with the
Board.
(iii) restrictions mentioned at (c) and (d) shall not be applicable in case of private
placement of non-convertible securities.
 
(2) No issuer shall make a public issue of non-convertible securities if as on the date of filing
of draft offer document or offer document, the issuer is in default of payment of interest or
repayment of principal amount in respect of non-convertible securities, if any, for a period of
more than six months. 
In-principle approval
6. The issuer shall make an application to one or more stock exchange(s) and obtain an in-
principle approval for listing of its non-convertible securities from the stock exchange(s)
where such securities are proposed to be listed:
Page 7 of 81

[Page 8]
Provided that where the application is made to more than one stock exchange, the issuer
shall choose one among them as the designated stock exchange. 
Explanation: For any subsequent issue, the issuer may choose a different stock exchange as
a designated stock exchange subject to the requirements of this regulation.
 
Depositories
7. The issuer shall enter into an arrangement with a depository for dematerialization of the
non-convertible securities in accordance with the Depositories Act,1996 (22 of 1996) and
regulations made thereunder and also take such steps to ensure that such securities are
admitted on all the depositories. 
Debenture Trustee 
8. The issuer shall appoint a debenture trustee in case of an issue of debt securities.
Registrar to the Issue
9. The issuer shall appoint a Registrar to the Issue, registered with the Board, which has
established connectivity with all the depositories: 
Provided that if the issuer itself is a Registrar to the Issue, it shall not appoint itself as a
Registrar to the Issue:
Provided further that the lead manager shall not act as a Registrar to the Issue in which it is
also handling the post-issue responsibilities. 
Credit rating
10. The issuer shall obtain credit rating from at least one credit rating agency, which shall be
disclosed in the offer document:
Provided that where the credit ratings are obtained from more than one credit rating agency
for the issue, all the ratings, including the unaccepted ratings, shall be disclosed in the offer
document.
Creation of Recovery Expense Fund
11. The issuer shall create a recovery expense fund with the designated stock exchange, by
depositing such amount and in such form and manner as may be specified by the Board. 
Electronic Issuances 
12. An issuer proposing to issue non-convertible securities through the on-line system of the
stock exchange(s) and depositories shall comply with the relevant applicable requirements
as may be specified by the Board.
Page 8 of 81

[Page 9]
9[Issuance of Environment, Social and Governance Debt Securities
12A. An issuer desirous of issuing and listing of Environment, Social and Governance Debt
Securities shall comply with such conditions as may be specified by the Board.]
Regulatory fees
13. (1) In case of public issue of debt securities and/or non-convertible redeemable preference
shares, the issuer shall while filing a draft offer document with the stock exchange(s)
forward a soft copy of the draft offer document to the Board for its records along with
regulatory fees as specified in Schedule VI of these regulations.
(2) In case of non -convertible securities issued on a private placement basis, the designated
stock exchange shall collect a regulatory fee as specified in Schedule VI of these regulations
from the issuer at the time of their listing. 
Day Count Convention  
14. (1) The day count convention for calculation of interest/dividend payments for non-
convertible securities shall be on Actual/Actual.
(2)All payments required to be made by an issuer shall be made on a working day. 
(3) In case the due date of any amount payable by the issuer falls on a day which is not a
working day, such payments shall be made in a manner as specified by the Board. 
Right to recall or redeem prior to maturity. 
15. (1) An issuer making issuance of non-convertible securities shall: 
(a) have the right to recall such securities prior to the maturity date (call option); or, 
(b) shall have a right to provide such right of redemption of debt securities prior to the
maturity date (put option) to all the investors or only to retail investors. 
 
(2) Such right to recall non-convertible securities or redeem debt securities prior to the
maturity date shall be exercised in accordance with the terms of issue and detailed
disclosure in this regard shall be made in offer document including date from which such
right is exercisable, period of exercise (which shall not be less than three working days) and
redemption amount (including the premium or discount at which such redemption shall take
place). 
(3) The issuer or investor may exercise such right with respect to all the non-convertible
securities issued or held by them respectively or with respect to a part of the non-convertible
securities so issued or held.
(4) In case of partial exercise of such right in accordance with the terms of the issue by the
issuer, it shall be done on proportionate basis only.
(5) No such right shall be exercisable before the expiry of one year from the date of issue of
9 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 11-12-2024.
Page 9 of 81

[Page 10]
such non-convertible securities.
(6)  10[The issuer shall send a notice regarding recall or redemption of non-convertible
securities, prior to maturity, to all the eligible holders of such securities and the debenture
trustee(s), at least twenty-one days before the date from which such right is exercisable and
the notice to the eligible holders shall be sent in the following manner: 
(i) soft copy of such notice shall be sent to the eligible holders who have registered
their email address(es) either with the listed entity or with any depository; and 
(ii) hard copy of the notice shall be sent to the eligible holders who have not
registered their  email address(es) either with the listed entity or with any
depository.]
(7) 11[The issuer shall simultaneously provide a copy of such notice to the stock exchange(s)
where the non-convertible securities of the issuer are listed, for dissemination on its website.]
(8) Issuer shall pay interest at the rate of fifteen percent per annum for the period of delay, if
any.
(9) After the completion of the exercise of such right, the issuer shall: 
(a) submit a report to the stock exchange(s) where the non-convertible securities are listed
for public dissemination regarding the details of non-convertible securities redeemed
during the exercise period and details of redemption thereof; 
(b) inform the debenture trustee regarding the debt securities redeemed during the exercise
period and details of redemption thereof; and,
(c) inform the depositories for extinguishing the non-convertible securities that have been
redeemed. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “retail investor” shall mean the holder of non-
convertible securities having the aggregate face value not more than rupees two lakh.
Debenture Redemption Reserve/ Capital Redemption Reserve 
16. The issuer shall create a debenture redemption reserve or capital redemption reserve in
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).
International Securities Identification Number 
17. (1) An issuer issuing non-convertible securities shall comply with the conditions relating to
the issue of International Securities Identification Number, as may be specified by the Board
from time to time. 
10Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 02-02-2023. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation (6) of regulation 15 read as: 
“Issuer shall send notice to all the eligible holders of such non-convertible securities and debenture trustee at least twenty-one 
days before the date from which such right is exercisable.”
11Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 02-02-2023. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation (7) of regulation 15 read as: 
“Issuer shall also provide a copy of such notice to the stock exchange(s) where such non-convertible securities are listed for 
wider dissemination and shall make an advertisement in an english national daily and regional daily having wide circulation at 
the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated, indicating the details of such rights and eligibility of the holders 
who are entitled to avail such right.”
Page 10 of 81

[Page 11]
(2) Any default committed by the issuer shall be reckoned at the International Securities
Identification Number level notwithstanding the  debt securities and/or non-convertible
redeemable preference shares being issued under different offer documents. 
Trust Deed  
18.(1) The issuer and the debenture trustee shall execute the trust deed 12[in such format
and] within such timelines as may be specified by the Board13[:]  
14[Provided that in case of any deviation from the format specified for the trust deed, the
debenture trustee may accept such deviations if a key summary sheet capturing the
deviations along with the rationale for the same is provided by the issuer in the General
Information Document/ Key Information Document or Shelf Prospectus.]
(2) Where an issuer fails to execute the trust deed within the period specified in the sub-
regulation (1), without prejudice to any liability arising on account of violation of the
provisions of the Act and these regulations, the issuer shall also pay interest of at least two
percent per annum or such other rate, as specified by the Board to the holder of debt
securities, over and above the agreed coupon rate, till the execution of the trust deed. 
(3) A clause stipulating the requirement under sub-regulation (2) shall form part of the Trust
Deed and also be disclosed in the Offer Document.
(4) Every debenture trustee shall amongst other matters, accept the trust deeds which shall
contain the matters as provided under Section 71 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)
and Form No. SH.12 of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014.  15[***] 
(5) The trust deed shall not contain any clause which has the effect of: 
(a) limiting or extinguishing the obligations and liabilities of the debenture trustees or the
issuer in relation to any rights or interests of the holders of the debt securities; 
(b) limiting or restricting or waiving the provisions of the Act, these regulations and circulars
or guidelines issued by the Board; 
(c) indemnifying the debenture trustees or the issuer for loss or damage caused by their act
of negligence or commission or omission.
(6) The trust deed shall contain the issuer’s bank details from which it proposes to pay the
12 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 28-10-2025. 
13 Substituted for the symbol “.” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible 
Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 28-10-2025.
14 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 28-10-2025.
15 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 28-10-2025. Prior to omission, the words and symbols were: 
“Such trust deed shall consist of two parts: 
(a) Part A containing statutory/standard information pertaining to the debt issue. 
(b) Part B containing details specific to the particular debt issue.” 
Page 11 of 81

[Page 12]
interest and redemption amount of the debt securities and the issuer shall pre-authorise the
debenture trustee(s) at the time of executing the trust deed to allow the debenture trustee to
seek information about interest payment and redemption payment from such bank. 
16[(6A) The trust deed shall contain a provision, mandating the issuer to appoint the person
nominated by the debenture trustee(s) in terms of clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of
regulation 15 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees)
Regulations, 1993, as a director on its Board of Directors at the earliest and not later than
one month from the date of receipt of nomination from the debenture trustee(s):  
Provided that an issuer whose debt securities are listed as on the date of publication of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 in the official gazette, shall amend the trust deed to
incorporate the above provision on or before September 30, 2023.]
(7) The trust deed shall also contain such other particulars as may be specified by the
Board.
Listing Agreement. 
19. Every issuer desirous of listing its non-convertible securities on a recognised stock
exchange(s) shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange(s).
Continuous Listing Conditions 
20. All the issuers of non-convertible securities which are listed on stock exchange(s) shall
comply with the listing regulations and/or such other conditions and disclosure requirements
as may be specified by the Board from time to time.  
Trading of Non-Convertible Securities 
21. (1) The trades in non-convertible securities listed on stock exchange(s) shall be cleared and
settled through clearing corporation of stock exchange(s), subject to conditions as specified
by the Board.
 (2) In case of trades of non-convertible securities which have been traded over the counter,
such trades shall be reported on any one of the reporting platforms of a recognized stock
exchange having a nation-wide trading terminal or such other platform as may be specified
by the Board.
(3) The Board may specify conditions for reporting of trades on the recognized stock
exchange or such other platform as referred to in sub-regulation (2).
Distribution of Dividend in case of default in payment of interest or redemption of debt
securities
16 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 02-02-2023.
Page 12 of 81

[Page 13]
22. Where the issuer has defaulted in payment of interest or redemption of debt securities or in
creation of security in accordance with the terms of the offer document, any distribution of
dividend shall require approval of the debenture trustee. 
Obligations of the Issuer
23. (1) The issuer shall treat all applicants to an issue of non-convertible securities in a fair and
equitable manner as per the procedures as may be specified by the Board.
(2) The issuer shall not employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud in connection with
issue or subscription or distribution of non-convertible securities which are listed or proposed
to be listed on the recognized stock exchange(s).
(3) The issuer shall apply for Securities and Exchange Board of India Complaints Redress
System (SCORES) authentication in the format specified by the Board and shall use the
same for all issuance of non-convertible securities.
(4) In case of a public issue, the issuer shall provide all required information/ documents to
the lead managers for conducting the due diligence, in the form and manner as may be
specified by the Board.
(5) 17[The issuer shall ensure that the secured debt securities are secured by hundred
percent security cover or higher security cover as per the terms of the offer document and/or
Debenture Trust Deed, sufficient to discharge the principal amount and the interest thereon
at all times for the issued debt securities.]
18[(6) If an issuer is a company, it shall ensure that its Articles of Association require its Board
of Directors to appoint the person nominated by the debenture trustee(s) in terms of clause
(e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 15 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 as a director on its Board of Directors: 
Provided that the issuer whose debt securities are listed as on the date of publication of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 in the official gazette, shall amend its Articles of Association
to comply with this provision, on or before September 30, 2023:
Provided further that the issuer, which is in default of payment of interest or repayment of
principal amount in respect of listed debt securities, shall appoint the person nominated by
the debenture trustee(s) as a director on its Board of Directors, within one month from date
of receipt of nomination from the debenture trustee or the date of publication of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 in the official gazette, whichever is later.]
17 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 11-04-2022. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation 5 read as:
“The issuer shall ensure that secured debt securities are secured by hundred percent security cover.”
18 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 02-02-2023.
Page 13 of 81

[Page 14]
19[(7) (a) The issuer shall fix a record date for the purposes of payment of interest, dividend
and payment of redemption or repayment amount or for such other purposes as specified by
the Board. 
(b)  Such  record  date  shall  be  fixed  at  fifteen  days  prior  to  the  due  date  of  payment
interest  or dividend, repayment of principal or any other corporate actions.]
Obligations of Debenture Trustee 
24. (1) The debenture trustee shall be vested with the requisite powers for protecting the
interest of holders of debt securities including a right to appoint a nominee director on the
Board of the issuer in consultation with holders of such debt securities and in accordance
with applicable law. 
(2) The debenture trustees shall supervise the implementation of the conditions regarding
creation of security for the debt securities, creation of recovery expense fund and debenture
redemption reserve, as applicable.
(3) The debenture trustee shall monitor the security cover in relation to secured debt
securities in the manner as specified by the Board. 
CHAPTER III 
PUBLIC ISSUE AND LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES AND NON CONVERTIBLE REDEEMABLE
PREFERENCE SHARES
PART A
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PUBLIC ISSUE AND LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES AND NON
CONVERTIBLE REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES
Other Conditions for public issue
25. (1) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers registered with the Board, as
lead manager(s) to the issue. 
        
(2) Where the issue is managed by more than one lead manager, the rights, obligations and
responsibilities, relating to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations, if any,
of each lead manager shall be predetermined and disclosed in the draft offer document and
the offer document.
(3) Where there is only one lead manager it shall not be an associate of the issuer as
provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations,
1992: 
19 Inserted by the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Non-Convertible Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 10-07-2024.
Page 14 of 81

[Page 15]
Provided that in case the lead manager is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose itself
as an associate of the issuer and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue. Such
lead manager shall not issue any due diligence certificate, in relation to the issue of such
debt securities and/or non-convertible redeemable preference shares:
Provided further that in case there is more than one lead manager, at least one lead
manager to the issue shall not be an associate.  
(4) The issuers shall not make a public issue of debt securities and non-convertible
redeemable preference shares for providing loan to or acquisition of shares of any entity who
is part of the promoter group or group companies:
Provided that where the issuer is a Non-Banking Finance Company, Housing Finance
Company or a Public Financial Institution the aforesaid restriction shall not apply and
appropriate disclosures shall be made as specified in the Schedule I of these regulations.
20[***]
Filing of draft offer document 
27. (1)  No issuer shall make a public issue of debt securities and/or non-convertible redeemable
preference shares unless a draft offer document has been filed with all the stock exchanges
on which such securities are proposed to be listed, through the lead manager. 
(2) The draft offer document filed with the stock exchange(s) shall be made public by posting
the same on the website of the stock exchange(s) for seeking public comments for a period
of 21[five] days from the date of filing the draft offer document with stock exchange(s)22[:]
23[Provided that issuers whose specified securities are listed on a recognised stock exchange
having nationwide trading terminals shall post the draft offer document filed with stock
exchange(s) for one day immediately after the date of filing the draft offer document with
stock exchange(s).]
 
(3) The draft offer document shall also be displayed on the website of the issuer and the lead
manager(s). 
20 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 11-12-2024. Prior to omission, it read as follows:
“Issuance of green debt securities
26. An issuer desirous of issuing and listing of green debt securities shall comply with the conditions as may be 
specified by the Board.”
21 Substituted for the words “seven working” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- 
Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024.
22 Substituted for the symbol “.” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible 
Securities) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024.
23 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024.
Page 15 of 81

[Page 16]
(4) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the draft offer document clearly specifies the
names and contact particulars including the postal and email address and telephone number
of the compliance officer who shall be a Company Secretary of the issuer. 
(5) The lead manager shall ensure that all comments received on the draft offer document
are suitably addressed prior to the filing of the offer document with the Registrar of
Companies.
 
(6) The lead manager shall, prior to filing of the offer document with the Registrar of
Companies, furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate in the format as per Schedule III
of these regulations. 
Disclosures in the offer document 
28. (1)  The offer document shall contain all material true, fair and adequate disclosures which 
are necessary for the subscribers of the debt securities and non-convertible redeemable
preference shares to take an informed investment decision and shall not omit/ include any
material fact which may make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances
under which they are made, misleading or untrue.
 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the issuer and the lead
manager(s) shall ensure that the offer document contains the following: 
(a) disclosures specified in Schedule I of these regulations; 
(b) disclosures under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and rules prescribed
thereunder; 
(c) additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board;
(3) The lead manager(s) shall exercise due diligence and satisfy themselves on all aspects
of the issue including the veracity of the disclosure in the offer document.
(4) The issuer shall ensure that the audited financial statements contained in the draft offer
document and offer document shall not be more than six months old from the date of filing
draft offer document or issue opening date, as applicable:
Provided that in case of:
i. listed issuers whose non-convertible securities or specified securities are listed on
stock exchange(s) and are in compliance with the listing regulations,
ii. issuers of non- convertible securities who are subsidiaries of entities who have listed
their specified securities, and are in compliance with the listing regulations,
instead of audited financial statements for the stub period, they may disclose unaudited
financial information for such period in the format as prescribed in the listing regulations
with limited review report, as filed with the stock exchange(s), subject to necessary
disclosures in this regard in the offer document including risk factors.
(5) The lead manager(s) shall:
(a) verify and confirm that the disclosures made in the offer documents are true, fair and
adequate and ensure that the issuer is in compliance with these regulations including
Page 16 of 81

[Page 17]
all the transaction specific disclosures as required in Schedule I of these regulations,
disclosures as required under the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013
(18 of 2013) and any other disclosures as may be specified by the Board.
(b) ensure that the track record of the public issues of non-convertible securities
managed by them is disclosed on their website with a reference in the offer
document, for a period of three financial years from the date of listing of each public
issue managed by the lead manager(s): 
Provided that all lead managers who have signed the due diligence certificate for such issue
to the public, as disclosed in the offer document, shall also disclose the track record of the
public issue managed by them.
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “material” means anything which is likely to
impact an investor’s informed investment decision. 
Mode of Disclosure of the offer document 
29. (1) The offer document shall be displayed on the websites of stock exchange(s), issuer and
lead manager which shall be available for download in PDF or any other format as may be
specified by the Board. 
 (2) The issuer shall file the offer document with the stock exchange(s), simultaneously while
filing thereof with the Registrar of Companies, for dissemination on their respective websites
prior to the opening of the issue. 
Advertisements for Public issues
30. (1) The issuer shall make an advertisement 24[through electronic modes such as online
newspapers or website of the issuer or the stock exchange, or] in an english national daily
and regional daily with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer
is situated, on or before the issue opening date and such advertisement shall, amongst
other things, contain the disclosures as specified in Schedule V.
25[Provided that issuers opting to advertise the public issue through electronic modes shall
publish a notice, in an English national daily and regional daily newspaper with wide
circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated, exhibiting a QR
Code and link to the complete advertisement.]
(2) No issuer shall issue an advertisement which is misleading or which contains any
information in a distorted manner or which is manipulative or deceptive. 
(3) The advertisement shall be truthful, fair and clear and shall not contain a statement,
promise or forecast which is untrue or misleading. 
24 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024.
25 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024.
Page 17 of 81

[Page 18]
(4) Any advertisement issued by the issuer shall not contain any matters which are
extraneous to the contents of the offer document and the advertisements shall not display
models, celebrities, fictional characters, landmarks, caricatures or the likes for solicitation of
the public issue. 
(5) The advertisement shall solicit investment only on the basis of information contained in
the offer document.  
(6) Any corporate or product advertisement issued by the issuer from the date of filing of the
draft offer document with the stock exchange(s) till the issue closure date, shall not make
any reference to the issue of debt securities and non-convertible redeemable preference
shares or be used for solicitation for debt securities and non-convertible redeemable
preference shares. 
(7) The credit rating shall be prominently displayed in the advertisement.
Prohibition on payment of incentives
31.Any person connected with the issue shall not offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect,
in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise to any person for making an
application in the issue, except for fees or commission for services rendered in relation to
the issue. 
26[Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall preclude the issuer from offering an
incentive in the form of additional interest or a discount to the issue price to senior citizens,
women, serving and retired defence personnel, widows and widowers of defence personnel,
retail individual investors or any other category of investors as may be specified by the Board
from time to time:
Provided further that such incentive shall be available only to the initial allottee but not in
case the debt securities are transferred/ transmitted post allotment.]
Abridged Prospectus and application forms
32. (1) The issuer and lead manager shall ensure that: 
(a) every application form and the abridged prospectus is in the format as specified by the
Board; 
(b) the abridged prospectus shall not contain matters which are extraneous to the contents
of the offer document; 
(c) adequate space shall be provided in the application form to enable the investors to fill
in various details like name, address, etc. 
(2) The issuer may provide the facility for subscription of application in electronic mode.
26 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 21-01-2026.
Page 18 of 81

[Page 19]
(3) The abridged prospectus shall be in the format as specified in Part B of Schedule I of
these regulations.
Price Discovery and Book building
33. (1) The issuer may determine the price and/or coupon of debt securities and non-convertible
redeemable preference shares in consultation with the lead manager. 
(2) The issue of debt securities and non-convertible redeemable preference shares may be
at fixed price and fixed coupon or the issuer may determine the demand and price or coupon
of the debt securities and non-convertible redeemable preference shares through book
building process in accordance with the procedure as may be specified by the Board. 
27[Period of subscription
33A. (1) A public issue of debt securities or, non-convertible redeemable preference shares shall
be
kept open for a minimum of 28[two] working days and a maximum of ten working days.
(2) In case of a revision in the price band or yield, the issuer shall extend the bidding (issue)
period disclosed in the offer document for a minimum period of 29[one working day]:
Provided that the overall bidding (issue) period shall not exceed the maximum number of
days, as provided in sub-regulation (1).
(3) In case of force majeure, banking strike or similar circumstances, the issuer may, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the offer
document:
Provided that the overall bidding (issue) period shall not exceed the maximum number of
days, as provided in sub-regulation (1).]
Minimum subscription. 
34. (1) Minimum subscription for a public issue shall not be less than seventy-five percent of the
base issue size or as may be specified by the Board:
Provided that the requirement of minimum subscription shall not apply to issuers issuing tax-
free bonds as specified by the Central Board of Direct Taxes. 
(2) In the event of non-receipt of minimum subscription, all blocked application money shall
be unblocked forthwith, but not later than eight working days from the date of closure of the
27 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 02-02-2023.
28 Substituted for the words “three” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- 
Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024.
29 Substituted for the words “three working days” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Non- Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024.
Page 19 of 81

[Page 20]
issue or such time as may be specified by the Board.  In case such application money is not
unblocked within such period, the issuer shall pay interest at the rate of fifteen percent per
annum for the delayed period.
Allotment of securities and payment of interest. 
35. (1) The issuer shall ensure that in case of listing of debt securities and non-convertible 
redeemable preference shares issued to public, allotment of securities offered to public shall
be made within such timeline as may be specified by the Board.
(2) Where the debt securities and non-convertible redeemable preference shares are not
allotted and/or application monies are not unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-
regulation (1) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay interest at the rate of fifteen percent
per annum to the investors. 
Underwriting  
36. A public issue of debt securities and non-convertible redeemable preference shares may be
underwritten by eligible intermediaries, either in full or part and in such case, adequate
disclosures regarding the underwriting arrangements shall be disclosed in the offer
document.
Mandatory listing of a public issue of debt securities and non-convertible redeemable
preference shares
37. (1) An issuer desirous of making an offer of debt securities and non-convertible redeemable
preference shares to the public shall make an application for listing to stock exchange(s) in
terms of sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 40 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013). 
(2) In the event of failure to list such securities within such days from the date of closure of
issue as may be specified by the Board (scheduled listing date), all application moneys
received or blocked in the public issue shall be refunded or unblocked forthwith within two
working days from the scheduled listing date to the applicants through the permissible
modes of making refunds and unblocking of funds. For delay in refund/unblocking of funds
beyond the timeline as specified above, the issuer shall be liable to pay interest at the rate of
fifteen percent per annum to the investors from the scheduled listing date till the date of
actual payment. 
(3) The issuer shall file the following documents along with the listing application to the stock
exchange and with the debenture trustee (in case of debt securities):
(a) Offer Document;
(b) Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association;
(c) Copy of the requisite board/ committee resolutions authorizing the borrowing and the
list of authorised signatories for the allotment;
(d) Copy of last three years Annual Reports;
(e) Reports about the business or transaction to which the proceeds of the securities are
to be applied directly or indirectly;
Page 20 of 81

[Page 21]
(f) Statement containing particulars of, dates of, and parties to all material contracts and
agreements;
(g) An undertaking from the issuer stating that the necessary documents for creation of
the charge, wherever applicable, including the Trust Deed would be executed within
the time frame prescribed in the relevant regulations/Act/rules etc. and the same would
be uploaded on the website of the designated stock exchange, where such securities
have been listed;
(h) An undertaking that permission / consent from the prior creditor for a second or  pari
passu charge being created, wherever applicable, in favour of the debenture trustee,
as applicable, to the proposed issue has been obtained; and,
(i) Any other particulars or documents that the recognized stock exchange may call for,
as it deems fit.
Other Obligations of the Lead Manager
38. (1) The lead manager shall not employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud in
connection with issue or subscription or distribution of debt securities and non-convertible
redeemable preference shares which are listed or proposed to be listed on a recognized
stock exchange.
(2)  30[The lead manager shall ensure that the secured debt securities are secured by
hundred percent security cover  or  higher security cover as per the terms of the offer
document and/or Debenture Trust Deed, sufficient to discharge the principal amount and the
interest thereon at all times for the issued debt securities.]
(3) The lead manager shall ensure payment of additional interest by the issuer in accordance
with these regulations in case of non-allotment of debt securities and  non-convertible
redeemable preference shares.
PART B
ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO A PUBLIC ISSUE AND LISTING OF DEBT
SECURITIES 
Roll-over of debt securities 
39. (1) The issuer shall redeem the debt securities in terms of the offer document. 
 
(2) Where the issuer intends to roll-over debt securities of a particular International
Securities Identification Number, it shall do so only upon giving fifteen days notice for the
proposed roll over.
30 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 11-04-2022. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation 2 read as: 
“The lead manager shall ensure that secured debt securities are secured by hundred percent security cover.”
Page 21 of 81

[Page 22]
(3) The roll-over shall be approved by a majority of holders holding not less than three-
fourths in value through postal ballot or e-voting of such debt securities in a duly
convened meeting as per the offer document.
(4) The notice referred to in sub- regulation (2) shall contain disclosures with regard to
rationale for roll-over and at least one credit rating, which shall be obtained from a credit
rating agency within six months prior to the due date of redemption.
(5) The issuer shall, prior to sending the notice to holders of debt securities, file a copy of the
notice and proposed resolution with the stock exchange(s) where such debt securities are
listed, for dissemination of the same to public on its website. 
(6) The existing trust deed may be continued if it provides for such continuation or the same
may be amended or fresh trust deed may be executed at the time of such roll over.
 
(7) The issuer shall on completion of the roll over, intimate the stock exchange(s) about the
roll-over of the debt securities.
(8) The issuer shall create and maintain adequate security in respect of such debt securities
to be rolled over.
(9) The issuer shall redeem the debt securities of all such holders, who have not given their
positive consent for the roll-over. 
Due Diligence by Debenture trustee
40. 31[ (1)  The  debenture  trustee  shall,  at  the  time  of  filing  the  draft  offer  document  with
the  stock exchange(s) and prior to the opening of the  public issue  of debt securities,
furnish to the Board and to the stock exchange(s), a due diligence certificate:
(a) in case of secured debt securities, in the format as specified in Part A of Schedule IV
of these regulations; and
(b)  in  case  of  unsecured  debt  securities,  in  the  format  as  specified  in  Part  A  of
Schedule  IVA  of these regulations.
(2) The debenture trustee shall at the time of filing of the listing application by the issuer,
furnish to the Board and to the stock exchange(s), a due diligence certificate:
(a) in case of secured debt securities, in the format as specified in Part B of Schedule IV
of these regulations; and
31 Substituted by the by the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Non-Convertible Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 10-07-2024. Prior to substitution, it read as “The debenture trustee shall, at the time of 
filing the draft offer document with the stock exchange(s) and prior to opening of the public issue of debt securities, furnish to the
Board and stock exchange(s), a due diligence certificate:
(a)in case of secured debt securities, in the format as specified in Schedule IV of these regulations; and
(b) in case of unsecured debt securities, in the format as specified in Schedule IVA of these regulations.” This was 
substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 11-04-2022. Prior to substitution, regulation 40 read as: 
“The debenture trustee shall, at the time of filing the draft offer document with the stock exchange(s) and prior to opening of the 
public issue of debt securities, furnish to the Board and stock exchange(s), a due diligence certificate in the format as specified in 
Schedule IV of these regulations.”
Page 22 of 81

[Page 23]
(b)  in  case  of  unsecured  debt  securities,  in  the  format  as  specified  in  Part  B  of
Schedule  IVA  of these regulations. 
(3) The stock exchange shall disclose the offer document and due diligence certificates
provided by the debenture trustee on its website.]
Filing of Shelf Prospectus and Tranche Prospectus.  
41. (1) Without prejudice to regulation 27 of these regulations, the following issuers may file
shelf prospectus under Section 31 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) for public
issuance of their debt securities:  
(a) Public financial institutions as defined under clause (72) of Section 2 of the Companies
Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and scheduled banks as defined under clause (e) of Section 2
of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934; or
(b) Issuers authorized by the notification of the Central Board of Direct Taxes to make
public issue of tax free secured bonds, with respect to such tax free bond issuances; or
(c) Infrastructure Debt Funds – Non-Banking Financial Companies regulated by the
Reserve Bank of India; or 
(d) Listed entities whose specified securities or publicly issued debt securities and non-
convertible redeemable preference shares or units of REIT and InvIT, are listed on
stock exchange(s) for a period of at least three years immediately preceding the issue
and have been complying with applicable provisions of the listing regulations and any
other guidelines so specified by the Board; or Non-Banking Financial Company
registered with the Reserve Bank of India and a Housing Finance Company registered
with the National Housing Bank or the Reserve Bank of India, complying with the
following criteria:
(i) having a net worth of at least rupees five hundred crore, as per the audited
balance sheet of the preceding financial year; 
(ii) having consistent track record of operating profits for the last three years; 
(iii) securities to be issued under the offer document have been assigned a rating of
not less than "AA-" category or equivalent by a credit rating agency registered
with the Board;
(iv) no regulatory action is pending against the issuer or its promoters or directors
before the Board or the Reserve Bank of India; and
(v) the issuer is not in default for:
a. the repayment of deposits or interest payable thereon; or
b. redemption of preference shares; or
c. redemption of debt securities and interest payable thereon; or
d. payment of dividend to any shareholder; or
e. repayment of any term loan or interest payable thereon, 
in the last three financial years and the current financial year:
Provided that the provisions of this clause shall not apply if the issuer has cured the default
at least thirty days prior to the date of filing the draft shelf prospectus.
Page 23 of 81

[Page 24]
(2) The issuer who has filed shelf prospectus shall file a copy of tranche prospectus with the
stock exchange(s) and the Board, immediately on filing the same with the Registrar of
Company. 
(3) The shelf prospectus shall contain the following disclosures:
(a) disclosures specified in Schedule I of these regulations;
(b) disclosures specified in the Companies Act (18 of 2013), as applicable; and
(c) additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board.
(4) The tranche prospectus shall contain details of the issue and material changes, if any, in
the information including the financial information provided in the shelf prospectus or the
earlier tranche prospectus, as applicable.
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “material” means anything which is likely to
impact an investor’s informed investment decision.
Retention of Over Subscription 
42. An issuer shall be allowed to retain over-subscription up to a maximum of hundred percent
of the base issue size or any lower limit as specified in the prospectus subject to necessary
corporate authorization, credit rating and any other condition as may be specified by the
Board: 
Provided that the issuers filing a shelf prospectus, can retain oversubscription up to the rated
size, as specified in their shelf prospectus: 
Provided further that the issuers of tax-free bonds, who have not filed shelf prospectus, the
limit for retaining the oversubscription shall be the amount for which they are authorised by
the Central Board of Direct Taxes  to raise in a year or any lower limit, subject to the same
being specified in the offer document.
Creation of security for secured debt securities
43. (1) While creating a charge or security, the issuer shall have the option to create charge or
security over the properties or assets (movable, immovable, tangible, intangible), shares or
any interest thereon, of the issuer or its subsidiaries or its holding companies or its
associate companies.
(2) 32[The charge created in respect of the secured debt securities shall be disclosed in the
offer document and the Debenture Trust Deed along with an undertaking that the assets on
which the charge or security has been created to meet the hundred percent security cover or
higher security cover  is free from  any  encumbrances and in case the assets are
32 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 11-04-2022. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation 2 read as:
“The charge created in respect of the secured debt securities shall be disclosed in the offer document along with an undertaking 
that the assets on which charge or security has been created to meet the  hundred percent security cover is free from any 
encumbrances and in case the assets are encumbered, the permissions or consent to create first, second or pari passu charge on the
assets has been obtained from the existing creditors to whom the assets are charged, prior to creation of the charge: 
Provided that sub regulation (2) shall not apply if the charge is created on additional assets other than the assets comprising of 
hundred percent security cover.”
Page 24 of 81

[Page 25]
encumbered, the permissions or consent to create  any further charge on the assets has
been obtained from the existing creditors to whom the assets are charged, prior to creation
of the charge.]
CHAPTER IV
LISTING OF PRIVATE PLACEMENT OF DEBT SECURITIES AND NON-CONVERTIBLE
REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES
PART A
COMMON CONDITIONS
Listing Application 
44. (1) Where the issuer has disclosed the intention to seek listing of debt securities and non-
convertible redeemable preference shares issued on private placement basis, the issuer
shall forward the listing application along with the disclosures as per this regulation to the
stock exchange(s) within such days as may be specified by the Board from the date of
closure of the issue: 
Provided that in case of delay in listing of such securities beyond such time period as may
be specified by the Board from the date of closure of the issue, the issuer shall pay an
additional interest/dividend at the rate as may be specified by the Board from time to time,
over and above the coupon/dividend applicable for such securities.
(2) The issuer shall file the following documents along with the listing application to the stock
exchange and with the debenture trustee (in case of debt securities):
(a) Placement Memorandum;
(b) Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association; 
(c) Copy of the requisite board/ committee resolutions authorizing the borrowing and list
of authorised signatories for the allotment of securities;
(d) Copy of last three years Annual Reports;
(e) Statement containing particulars of, dates of, and parties to all material contracts and
agreements;
(f) An undertaking from the issuer stating that the necessary documents for creation of
the charge, wherever applicable, including the Trust Deed has been executed within
the time frame prescribed in the relevant regulations/Act/rules etc. and the same
would be uploaded on the website of the designated stock exchange, where such
securities have been proposed to be listed;
(g) In case of debt securities, an undertaking that permission / consent from the prior
creditor for a second or pari passu charge being created, wherever applicable, in
favour of the debenture trustee to the proposed issue has been obtained; and
(h) Any other particulars or documents that the recognized stock exchange may call for
as it deems fit:
Page 25 of 81

[Page 26]
Provided that issuers desirous of issuing debt securities on private placement basis who are
in existence for less than three years may provide Annual Reports pertaining to the years of
existence.
(3) 33[The debenture trustee shall submit a due diligence certificate to the stock exchange:(a)
in case of secured debt securities, in the format as specified in Part B of Schedule IV of
these regulations; and(b)  in  case  of  unsecured  debt  securities,  in  the  format  as
specified  in  Part  B  of  Schedule  IVA  of these regulations.
(3A)  The  stock  exchange  shall  disclose  the  placement  memorandum  and  the  due
diligence  certificates provided by the debenture trustee on its website.]
(4) The stock exchange(s) shall list the debt securities only upon receipt of the due diligence
certificate from the debenture trustee as per format specified by the Board.
Disclosures in respect of Private Placements
45. (1) The issuer making a private placement of debt securities and non-convertible
redeemable preference shares and seeking listing thereof on a recognised stock exchange
shall make the following disclosures in the placement memorandum: 
(a) disclosures specified in 34[Schedule I] of these regulations; 
(b) disclosures specified in the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), as applicable; 
(c) additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board.
(2) The disclosures as provided in sub-regulation (1) shall be made on the websites of stock
exchange(s) where such securities are proposed to be listed and shall be available for
download in PDF or any other format as may be specified by the Board. 
(3) The issuer shall ensure that the audited financial statements contained in the placement
memorandum 35[***] shall not be more than six months old from the date of filing placement
memorandum or the issue opening date, as applicable:
Provided that in case of:
(a) listed issuers (whose non-convertible securities or specified securities are listed on
recognised stock exchange(s)), who are in compliance with the listing regulations;
(b) the issuers of non-convertible securities, who are subsidiaries of entities who have listed
their specified securities, and are in compliance with the listing regulations,
33 Substituted by the by the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Non-Convertible Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 10-07-2024. Prior to substitution, it read as “The debenture trustee shall submit a due 
diligence certificate to the stock exchange:
(a)in case of secured debt securities, in the format as specified in Schedule IV of these regulations; and
(b) in case of unsecured debt securities, in the format as specified in Schedule IVA of these regulations.” Prior to this, it 
was substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 11-04-2022. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation 3 read as:
“Debenture trustee shall submit a due diligence certificate to the stock exchange in the format as specified in Schedule IV of 
these regulations.”
34 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023. Prior to substitution, the words were “Schedule II”.
35 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023. Prior to omission, the words were “and tranche placement memorandum”.
Page 26 of 81

[Page 27]
instead of audited financial statements for the stub period, they may disclose unaudited
financial information for such period in the format as prescribed in the listing regulations
with limited review report, as filed with the stock exchange(s), subject to necessary
disclosures in this regard in the placement memorandum including risk factors.
Allotment of securities 
46. The issuer shall ensure allotment of debt securities and non-convertible redeemable
preference shares issued on a private placement basis and credit to the dematerialised
account of the investors, is made within such time as may be specified by the Board. 
PART B
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES ISSUED ON PRIVATE
PLACEMENT BASIS
Filing of shelf placement memorandum
47. 36[***]
Creation of security
48. (1) While creating a charge or security, the issuer shall have the option to create charge or
security over the properties or assets (movable, immovable, tangible, intangible), shares or
any interest thereon, of the issuer or its subsidiaries or its holding companies or its
associate companies.
(2) 37[The charge created in respect of secured debt securities shall be disclosed in the offer
document and the Debenture Trust Deed along with an undertaking that the assets on which
36 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023. Prior to omission, regulation 47 read as under:
“(1) An issuer making a private placement of debt securities and seeking listing thereof on a stock exchange(s) may file a shelf 
placement memorandum.
(2) The shelf placement memorandum shall indicate a period not exceeding one year as the period of validity of such 
memorandum which shall commence from the date of opening of the first offer of debt securities under that memorandum, and in
respect of a second or subsequent offer of such debt securities issued during the period of validity of that memorandum, no 
further placement memorandum is required:
Provided that the issuer while making any private placement under a shelf placement memorandum, shall file with the stock 
exchange(s) tranche placement memorandum with respect to each tranche, containing details of the private placement and 
material changes, if any, in the information including the financial information provided in the shelf placement memorandum or 
the earlier tranche placement memorandum, as applicable.
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “material” means anything which is likely to impact an investor’s informed 
investment decision.”
37 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 11-04-2022. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation 2 read as:
“The charge created in respect of the secured debt securities shall be disclosed in the offer document along with an undertaking 
that the assets on which charge or security has been created to meet the hundred percent security cover is free from any 
encumbrances and in case the assets are encumbered, the permissions or consent to create first, second or pari passu charge on the
assets has been obtained from the existing creditors to whom the assets are charged, prior to creation of the charge: 
Provided that sub regulation (2) shall not apply if the charge is created on additional assets other than the assets comprising of 
hundred percent security cover.”
Page 27 of 81

[Page 28]
the charge or security has been created to meet the hundred percent security cover or
higher security cover is free from any encumbrances and in case the assets are
encumbered, the permissions or consent to create any further charge on the assets has
been obtained from the existing creditors to whom the assets are charged, prior to creation
of the charge.] 
Consolidation and re-issuance 
49. An issuer may carry out consolidation and re-issuance of its debt securities, in the manner
as may be specified by the Board from time to time subject to the fulfilment of the following
conditions:  
(a) the Articles of Association of the issuer shall not contain any provision, whether express
or implied, contrary to such consolidation and re-issuance;
(b)  the issuer has obtained fresh credit rating for each re-issuance from at least one credit
rating agency registered with the Board and is disclosed;  
(c) such ratings shall be reviewed on a periodic basis as specified by the Board and the
change, if any, shall be disclosed;
(d) appropriate disclosures are made with regard to consolidation and re-issuance in the
placement memorandum. 
CHAPTER V
ISSUANCE AND LISTING OF PERPETUAL DEBT INSTRUMENTS, PERPETUAL NON-
CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE SHARES
 AND SIMILAR INSTRUMENTS
General Conditions 
50. (1) Issuers permitted by the Reserve Bank of India to issue perpetual debt instruments,
perpetual non-cumulative preference shares and instruments of similar nature forming part
of non-equity regulatory capital may list such instruments after complying with the conditions
stipulated under this chapter.
(2) An issuer may issue such instruments in compliance with the guidelines issued by the
Reserve Bank of India and/or any other relevant laws applicable to them. 
(3) Issuers of these securities shall be required to make the following disclosures:
(a) disclosures as specified under 38[Schedule I];
(b) any disclosure as may be provided under the guidelines framed by the Reserve Bank
of India or the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), as applicable;  
(c) any other disclosures as may be specified by the Board.
(4) The issuer shall comply with the terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board
from time to time and shall make adequate disclosures in the offer document regarding the
38 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023. Prior to substitution, the words were “Schedule II”.
Page 28 of 81

[Page 29]
features of these instruments and relevant risk factors and if such instruments are listed,
shall comply with the listing regulations.
39[(5) The designated stock exchange shall collect a regulatory fee as specified in Schedule
VI to these regulations from an issuer of perpetual debt instruments, perpetual non-
cumulative preference shares and similar instruments at the time of their listing.]
40[CHAPTER VA
ISSUANCE AND LISTING OF NON-CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES ISSUED ON A PRIVATE
PLACEMENT BASIS 
Filing of general information document and key information document
50A. (1) An issuer making a private placement of non-convertible securities, and seeking listing
thereof on stock exchange(s), shall file a general information document with the stock
exchange(s), which shall contain the following disclosures, namely, - 
(a) disclosures specified in Schedule I of these regulations;
(b) disclosures specified in the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), as applicable; and
(c) additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that the provisions of this regulation shall be applicable on a ‘comply or explain’
basis until March 31, 2024 and on a mandatory basis thereafter:
Provided further that issuers making second or subsequent offers of non-convertible
securities, during the validity of the shelf placement memorandum filed prior to the date
of this regulation coming into force, shall not be required to file the general information
document for such second or subsequent issuances so long as the key information
document is filed in accordance with these regulations:
Provided further that an issuer that has filed a shelf prospectus in case of public issue
under these regulations and subsequently intends to issue non-convertible securities on
a private placement basis and seeks listing thereof, within the validity period of such
shelf prospectus, shall not be required to file a general information document so long as
the key information document is filed in accordance with these regulations.
Explanation I. – For the purposes of this regulation, “comply or explain” means that the
issuer shall endeavour to comply and achieve full compliance, by filing a general
information document instead of a placement memorandum for private placement of
non-convertible securities sought to be listed, until March 31, 2024. In case the entity is
not able to achieve full compliance with the provisions, till such time, it shall explain the
reasons for such non-compliance or partial compliance, and the steps initiated to
achieve full compliance, in such form and manner as may be specified by the Board from
time to time.
39 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 02-02-2023.
40 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023.
Page 29 of 81

[Page 30]
Explanation II. –  Nothing in this regulation shall exempt an entity undertaking a scheme
of arrangement, under regulation 37 or regulation 59A or both of the listing regulations,
from the filing of a general information document under sub-regulation (1), to be filed by
the resultant entity, post implementation of such scheme of arrangement.
Explanation III. – For the purposes of this regulation, “shelf placement memorandum”
means a placement memorandum in relation to the first issuance of non-convertible
securities issued on a private placement basis, issued prior to this regulation coming into
force and valid as on the date of this regulation coming into force.
(2) The general information document shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of
opening of the first offer of non-convertible securities made under that general information
document.
(3) In respect of a second or subsequent offer of non-convertible securities, during the period
of validity of that general information document under sub-regulation (2), no further general
information document shall be required to be filed.
(4) The general information document may indicate the size of the issue i.e., the amount of
monies which the issuer proposes to raise during the period of validity of the general
information document.
(5) An issuer making a private placement of second or subsequent offer of non-convertible
securities, during the validity of the general information document or a shelf prospectus or a
shelf placement memorandum, as the case may be, shall file a key information document for
each such second or subsequent offer of non-convertible securities, with the stock
exchange(s).
(6) The key information document shall contain the following information: 
(a) details of the offer of non-convertible securities in respect of which the key
information document is being issued; 
(b) financial information, if such information provided in the general information
document is more than six months old;
(c) material changes, if any, in the information provided in the general information
document; 
(d) any material developments not disclosed in the general information document,
since the issue of the general information document relevant to the offer of non-
convertible securities in respect of which the key information document is being
issued; and
(e) disclosures applicable in case of private placement of non-convertible securities as
specified in schedule I, in case the second or subsequent offer is made during the
validity of the shelf prospectus for which no general information document has
been filed.
Explanation. – For the purpose of this regulation, “material” shall mean anything which is
likely to impact an investor’s informed investment decision.
Page 30 of 81

[Page 31]
(7) The disclosures made under this regulation shall be made on the websites of stock
exchange(s) where such securities are proposed to be listed and shall be made available for
download in PDF or any other format as may be specified by the Board.
(8) The issuer shall ensure that the audited financial statements disclosed under this
regulation are not more than six months old from the date of filing draft placement
memorandum or the issue opening date, as applicable: 
Provided that issuers:
(a) whose non-convertible securities or specified securities are listed on recognised
stock exchange(s), who are in compliance with the listing regulations, or
(b) who are subsidiaries of entities who have listed their specified securities, and are in
compliance with the listing regulations, 
may disclose unaudited financial information instead of audited financial statements
for the interim period in the format as specified under the listing regulations, along
with the limited review report, as filed with the stock exchange(s), subject to
necessary disclosures, including risk factors, in this regard.
CHAPTER V B
REQUIREMENTS FOR LARGE CORPORATES
50B. (1) A listed entity, fulfilling the criteria as may be specified by the Board, shall be
considered as a ‘Large Corporate’. 
(2) Such Large Corporates shall comply with the conditions or requirements, as may be
specified by the Board from time to time.]
CHAPTER VI
LISTING OF COMMERCIAL PAPER
51. (1) Issuers desirous of listing of commercial paper shall comply with the conditions as may
be specified by the Board from time to time. 
41[(1A) An issuer that has filed a general information document under these regulations and
subsequently intends to issue commercial paper and seeks listing thereof, during the validity
period of such general information document, shall file a key information document with the
disclosures as may be specified by the Board.
(1B) An issuer that has filed a shelf prospectus in case of public issue under these
regulations and subsequently intends to issue Commercial Paper and seeks listing thereof,
41 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023.
Page 31 of 81

[Page 32]
during the validity period of such shelf prospectus, shall not be required to file a general
information document so long as the key information document is filed in accordance with
these regulations.]
(2) The designated stock exchange shall collect a regulatory fee as specified in Schedule VI
of these regulations from an issuer of commercial paper at the time of their listing.
(3) The issuer shall apply for Securities and Exchange Board of India Complaints Redress
System (SCORES) authentication in the format specified by the Board and shall use the
same for issuance and listing of commercial paper.
42[CHAPTER VIA
ONLINE BOND PLATFORM PROVIDERS
Registration of online bond platform providers.
51A. (1) No person shall act as an online bond platform provider without a certificate of
registration from the Board as a stock broker under the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Stock Brokers) Regulations, 1992.
(2) Such person shall comply with the conditions of registration and such other requirements
as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation, a
person acting as an online bond platform provider without the certificate of registration on or
prior to the date of this regulation coming into force, may continue to do so for a period of
three months from the date of this regulation coming into force or such other time period as
may be specified by the Board, or if it has made an application for grant of a certificate of
registration within the specified period, till the disposal of such application by the Board.
Explanation. – For the purpose of this Chapter, “online bond platform provider” means any
person operating or providing an online bond platform and “online bond platform” means any
electronic system, other than a recognised stock exchange or an electronic book provider
platform, on which the debt securities which are listed or proposed to be listed, are offered
and transacted.]
CHAPTER VII
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS 
Inspection by the Board 
52. (1) The Board may suo-moto or upon information received by it, appoint one or more
42 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 09-11-2022.
Page 32 of 81

[Page 33]
persons to undertake the inspection of the books of account, records and documents of the
issuer or lead manager(s) or any other intermediary associated with the issue, for any of the
following purposes, namely, - 
(a) to verify whether the provisions of the Act, the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013),
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Depositories Act,1996
(22 of 1996) and/or the rules and regulations made thereunder in respect of issue of
securities have been complied with;  
(b) to verify whether the requirements in respect of issue of non-convertible securities as
specified in these regulations have been complied with; 
(c) to verify whether the requirements of listing conditions and continuous disclosure
requirements have been complied with; 
(d) to inquire into the complaints received from investors, other market participants or
any other persons on any matter of issue and transfer of non-convertible securities
governed under these regulations; 
(e) to inquire into affairs of the issuer in the interest of investor protection or the integrity
of the market governed under these regulations; and, 
(f) to inquire whether any direction issued by the Board has been complied with. 
(2) While undertaking an inspection under these regulations, the inspecting authority or the
Board, as the case may be, shall follow the procedure specified by the Board for inspection
of the intermediaries. 
Directions by the Board 
53. Without prejudice to the action under Sections 11, 11A, 11 B, 11D, sub- section (3) of
Section 12 , Chapter VIA and Section 24 of the Act or Section 439 of the Companies Act,
2013 (18 of 2013), the Board may either  suo-moto or on receipt of information or on
completion or pendency of inspection, inquiry or investigation, in the interests of the
securities market, issue or pass such directions as it deems fit including any or all of the
following:
(a) directing the issuer to refund of the application monies to the applicants in an issue; 
(b) directing the persons concerned not to further deal in securities in any particular
manner; 
(c) directing the persons concerned not to access the securities market for a particular
period; 
(d) restraining the issuer or its promoters or directors from making further issues of non-
convertible securities; 
(e) directing the person concerned to sell or divest the non-convertible securities; 
(f) directing the issuer or the depository not to give effect to transfer or directing further
freeze of transfer of non-convertible securities; 
(g) any other direction which the Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of
the case: 
Provided that the Board shall, either before or after issuing such directions, give an
opportunity of being heard to the persons against whom the directions are issued or
proposed to be issued:
Page 33 of 81

[Page 34]
Provided further that if any ex-parte direction is required to be issued, the Board may give
post decisional hearing to affected person. 
CHAPTER VIII
MISCELLANEOUS 
Delegation  
54. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall be exercisable by any
officer of the Board to whom such powers are delegated by the Board. 
Power of the Board to issue general order or circular. 
55. (1) The Board may by a general or special order or circular specify any conditions or
requirement in respect of issue of non-convertible securities.
 
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power and provisions
of these regulations, such orders or circulars may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely: 
(a) electronic issuances and other issue procedures including the procedure for price
discovery; 
(b) conditions governing trading, reporting, clearing and settlement of trade in non-
convertible securities; 
(c) listing conditions. 
(3) In case any special order is proposed to be issued to any particular issuer or intermediary
on a specific issue, no such order shall be issued unless an opportunity to represent is given
to the person affected by such order.
Power to remove difficulty and issue clarifications 
56. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of
these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and/or guidelines from time to time. 
Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations
57. (1) The Board may, on an application made by any issuer, relax any of the procedural
requirements or conditions or strict enforcement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied
that: 
(a) requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or 
(b) requirement causes undue hardship to a particular class of industry or a particular
issuer or a class of issuers from accessing the securities market; or 
(c) relaxation is in the interest of substantial number of investors; or
(d) such relaxation will be in the interest of securities market. 
(2) For seeking relaxation from any of the provisions of this regulation, an application giving
details and the grounds on which, such relaxation has been sought, shall be filed with the
Board.  
Page 34 of 81

[Page 35]
(3) The application referred to under sub-regulation 2 shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable fee of rupees one lakh, payable by way of direct credit in the bank account
through electronic modes including payment gateways or such other mode allowed by the
Reserve Bank of India. 
(4)  The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any
of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding
twelve months, for furthering innovation relating to testing new products, processes,
services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities
markets. 
 (5) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (4) shall be subject to the
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to
be complied with on a continuous basis. 
Explanation: For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live
testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be
deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering
innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the
Board.
Relaxation of strict enforcement of Rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules,
1957 
58. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (7) of Rule 19 of the Securities Contracts
(Regulation) Rules, 1957, the Board relaxes the strict enforcement of:
(a) sub-rules (1) and (3) of Rule 19 the said rules in relation to listing of an issue of non-
convertible securities;
(b) clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 19 of the said rules in relation to listing of debt
securities:
i. issued by way of a private placement by any issuer; and, 
ii. issued to the public by an infrastructure company, a Government company, a
statutory authority or corporation or any special purpose vehicle set up by any of
them, which is engaged in the infrastructure sector.
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation the term ‘infrastructure sector’ shall have the
same meaning assigned to it under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018.
Repeal and Savings  
59. (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)
Regulations, 2008 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of
Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares) Regulations, 2013 shall stand repealed
from the date on which these regulations come to force. 
 (2) Notwithstanding such repeal: 
Page 35 of 81

[Page 36]
(a) anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including
observation made in respect of any draft offer document, any adjudication, enquiry or
investigation  commenced  or  show-cause  notice  issued  under  the  repealed
regulations, prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under
the corresponding provisions of these regulations; 
(b) any application made to the Board under the repealed regulations, prior to such
repeal, and pending before it shall be deemed to have been made under the
corresponding provisions of these regulations; and,
(c) the    previous    operation    of    the   repealed    regulations    or    anything    duly
done    or suffered  thereunder,  any  right,  privilege,  obligation  or  liability
acquired,  accrued  or incurred under the repealed regulations, any penalty, incurred
in respect of any violation committed against the repealed regulations, or any
investigation,  legal  proceeding  or  remedy   in  respect    of   any   such   right,
privilege,   obligation,   liability,   penalty  as  aforesaid,  shall  remain  unaffected  as
if  the  repealed  regulations  has  never  been repealed.
(3)  Subsequent to the repeal of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and
Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 and the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares) Regulations,
2013, any reference thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or circulars issued
thereunder by the Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding provisions
of these regulations. 
Page 36 of 81

[Page 37]
43[SCHEDULE I
DISCLOSURES FOR ISSSUE OF SECURITIES
[See Regulation 25(4), Regulation 28(2), Regulation 28(5), Regulation 41(3), Regulation 45(1) and
Regulation 50(3)]
An issuer seeking to list its non-convertible securities on a recognized stock exchange issued by
way of a public issue or private placement, shall make the disclosures specified in this schedule. 
1. Instructions:
1.1. All information shall be relevant and updated as on the date of the offer document. The
source and basis of all statements and claims shall be disclosed. Terms such as “market
leader”, “leading player”, etc. shall be used only if these can be substantiated by citing a
reliable source.
1.2. Simple English shall be used to enable easy understanding of the contents. Technical
terms, if any, used in explaining the business of the issuer shall be clarified in simple
terms.
1.3. There shall be no forward-looking statements that cannot be substantiated.
1.4. Consistency shall be ensured in the style of disclosures. If first person is used, the same
may be used throughout. Sentences that contain a combination of first and third persons
may be avoided.
1.5. For currency of presentation, only one standard financial unit shall be used.
2. Interpretation:
2.1. In the case of public issuance of non-convertible securities, all references to “ non-
convertible securities” in this Schedule shall refer to debt securities and non-convertible
redeemable preference shares.
2.2. In the case of public issuance of non-convertible securities, all references to “ issue
document” shall mean the offer document. 
2.3. In the case of a private placement of non-convertible securities, all references to “issue
document” shall mean the placement memorandum or the general information document,
as the case may be. 
3. Disclosures
3.1. The disclosures stipulated herein are applicable to public issuance and private
43 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023.
Page 73 of 81

[Page 38]
placement of non-convertible securities, unless specified otherwise.
3.2. The front page of the issue document shall contain the following information:
(a) Name of the issuer, its logo (if any), corporate identity number, permanent account
number, date and place of incorporation, latest registration/identification number issued
by any regulatory authority which regulates such issuer (i.e., Reserve Bank of India,
Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India etc.), if applicable, address of its
registered and corporate offices, telephone number, website address and e-mail
address. 
(b) Name, telephone number, email address of compliance officer, company secretary, chief
financial officer and promoters.
(c) Name, addresses, logo, telephone numbers, email addresses and contact person of
(wherever applicable): 
● Debenture Trustee, 
● Lead Manager(s), (applicable in case of public issue)
● Statutory Auditors,
● Credit Rating Agencies, and
● Such other persons as may be specified. 
(d) A disclosure that a copy of the issue document has been delivered for filing to the
Registrar of Companies as required under sub-section (4) of Section 26 of Companies
Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).
(e) Date of the issue document and type of issue document.
(f) The nature, number, price and amount of securities offered, and issue size (base issue
or green shoe), as may be applicable.
(g) The aggregate amount proposed to be raised through all the stages of offers of non-
convertible securities made through the shelf prospectus under section 31 of the
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) (applicable in case of public issue).
(h) The name, logo and address of the registrar to the issue, along with its telephone
number, fax number, website address and e-mail address.
(i) The issue schedule:
Page 74 of 81

[Page 39]
(i) date of opening of the issue;
(ii) date of closing of the issue;
(iii) date of earliest closing of the issue, if any.
(j) The credit rating (cross reference of press release to be provided) of the security along
with all the ratings obtained by the issuer for that security.
(k) The name(s) of the stock exchanges where the securities are proposed to be listed.
(l) The details of eligible investors (applicable in case of private placement).
(m) Coupon/dividend  rate,  coupon/dividend  payment  frequency,  redemption  date,
redemption amount and details of debenture trustee.
(n) Details about underwriting of the issue including the amount undertaken to be
underwritten by the underwriters.
(o) Inclusion of a compliance clause in relation to electronic book mechanism and details
pertaining to the uploading the issue document on the Electronic Book Provider Platform
(applicable in case of private placement).
3.3. Following disclosure shall be contained in the other pages of the issue document:
3.3.1. Issuer’s Absolute Responsibility:
The following clause on ‘Issuer’s Absolute Responsibility’ shall be incorporated in
a box format:
“The issuer, having made all reasonable inquiries, accepts responsibility for and
confirms that this issue document contains all information with regard to the
issuer and the issue which is material in the context of the issue, that the
information contained in the issue document is true and correct in all material
aspects and is not misleading, that the opinions and intentions expressed herein
are honestly stated and that there are no other facts, the omission of which
make this document as a whole or any of such information or the expression of
any such opinions or intentions misleading.”
3.3.2. Details of Promoters of the Issuer:
(a) A complete profile of all the promoters, including their name, date of birth,
Page 75 of 81

[Page 40]
age,  44[***] educational qualifications, experience in the business or
employment, positions/posts held in the past, directorships held, other
ventures of each promoter, special achievements, their business and
financial activities, photograph45[***].
(b) A declaration confirming that the permanent account number, Aadhaar
number, driving license number, bank account number(s)  46[, passport
number and personal addresses] of the promoters and permanent account
number of directors have been submitted to the stock exchanges on which
the non-convertible securities are proposed to be listed, at the time of filing
the draft issue document.
3.3.3. Details of credit rating, along with the latest press release of the Credit Rating
Agency in relation to the issue, and a declaration that the rating is valid as on the
date of issuance and listing. Such press release shall not be older than one year from
the date of opening of the issue.
3.3.4. Name(s) of the stock exchange(s) where the non-convertible securities are proposed
to be listed and the details of  in-principle approval for listing obtained from these
stock exchange(s).
3.3.5. If non-convertible securities are proposed to be listed on more than one stock
exchange(s) then the issuer shall specify the designated stock exchange for the
issue. The issuer shall specify the stock exchange where the recovery expense fund
is being or has been created, as specified by the Board.
3.3.6. The following details regarding the issue to be captured in a table format under “Issue
Schedule”, as set out below:
Particulars Date
Issue Opening Date
Issue Closing Date
Pay In Date
Deemed Date of Allotment
3.3.7. Name, logo, addresses, website URL, email address, telephone number and contact
person of: 
(a) Legal counsel, (if any)
44 Omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024. Prior to omission, the words and symbols were “personal addresses,”.
45 Omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024. Prior to omission, the words and symbols were “, permanent accountant number”.
46 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024.
Page 76 of 81

[Page 41]
(b) Merchant banker and Co-managers to the issues, ( Not applicable for private
placement. However, if appointed, to be disclosed)
(c) Legal advisor, (applicable in case of public issue)
(d) Bankers to the issue, (applicable in case of public issue)
(e) Sponsor bank, (applicable in case of public issue)
(f) Guarantor, if any
(g) Arrangers, if any.
3.3.8. About the Issuer
The following details pertaining to the issuer:
(a) Overview and a brief summary of the business activities of the issuer;
(b) Structure of the group; 
(c) A brief summary of the business activities of the subsidiaries of the issuer;
47[(d) Details of branches or units where the issuer carries on its business activities, if
any may be provided in the form of a static Quick Response (QR) code and web
link. 
If the issuer provides the details of branches or units in the form of a static QR
code and web link, the details of the said branches or units shall be provided to
the debenture trustee as well and kept available for inspection as specified in
clause (g) of paragraph 3.3.41 of this Schedule. A checklist item in the ‘Security
and  Covenant  Monitoring  System’  shall  also  be  included  for  providing
information about branches or units of the issuer to the debenture trustee and
confirmation of the same by the debenture trustee.
48[(e) Use of proceeds (in the order of priority for which the said proceeds will be
utilized): (i) purpose of the placement; (ii) break-up of the cost of the project for
which the money is being raised; (iii) means of financing for the project; (iv)
proposed deployment status of the proceeds at each stage of the project.]
47 Omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024. Prior to omission, the words and symbols were “Details of branches or units where the issuer carries
on its business activities, if any;”.
48 Omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024. Prior to omission, the words and symbols were “Project cost and means of financing, in case of 
funding of new projects”.
Page 77 of 81

[Page 42]
3.3.9. Expenses of the Issue: Expenses of the issue along with a break up for each item of
expense, including details of the fees payable to separately as under (in terms of
amount, as a percentage of total issue expenses and as a percentage of total issue
size), as applicable:
(a) Lead manager(s) fees,
(b) Underwriting commission,
(c) Brokerage, selling commission and upload fees,
(d) Fees payable to the registrars to the issue,
(e) Fees payable to the legal Advisors,
(f) Advertising and marketing expenses,
(g) Fees payable to the regulators including stock exchanges,
(h) Expenses incurred on printing and distribution of issue stationary,
(i) Any other fees, commission or payments under whatever nomenclature.
3.3.10. Financial Information:
(a) The audited financial statements (i.e. profit and loss statement, balance sheet
and cash flow statement) both on a standalone and consolidated basis for a
period of three completed years, which shall not be more than six months old
from the date of the issue document or issue opening date, as applicable.
Such financial statements shall be should be audited and certified by the
statutory auditor(s) who holds a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review
Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). 
However, if the issuer, being a listed REIT/listed InvIT, has been in existence
for a period of less than three completed years, and historical financial
statements of such REIT/InvIT are not available for some portion or the entire
portion of the reporting period of three years and the interim period, the
combined financial statements shall be disclosed for the periods for which
such historical financial statements are not available.
49[ Provided that, issuers whose non-convertible  securities  are  listed  as  on
the  date  of  filing  of  the  offer document or placement memorandum, may
provide only a web-link and a static quick response code of  the  audited
49 Inserted by the by the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 10-07-2024.
Page 78 of 81

[Page 43]
financial  statements  in  the  offer  document  or  placement  memorandum
subject  to  the following conditions:
(i) Such  listed  issuers  shall  disclose  a  comparative  key  operational
and  financial  parameter  on  a standalone  and  consolidated  basis,
certified  by  the  statutory  auditor(s)  who  holds  a  valid certificate
issued by the Peer  Review Board of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India, for the last three completed years in the offer
document.
(ii) The scanning of such static quick response code or clicking on the web-
link, shall display the audited  financial  statements  for  last  three
financial  years  of  such  issuer  on  the  website  of  the stock exchange
where such data is hosted.]
(b) Listed issuers (whose debt securities or specified securities are listed on
recognised stock exchange(s)) in compliance with the listing regulations, may
disclose unaudited financial information for the interim period in the format as
specified therein with limited review report in the issue document, as filed with
the stock exchanges, instead of audited financial statements for the interim
period, subject to making necessary disclosures in this regard in issue
document including risk factors.
(c) Issuers other than REITs/ InvITs desirous of issuing debt securities on private
placement basis and who are in existence for less than three years may
disclose financial statements mentioned at (a) above for such period of
existence, subject to the following conditions:
(i) The issue is made on the Electronic Book Platform of the stock
exchange, irrespective of the issue size; and
(ii) In case of issue of securities on a private placement basis, the issue is
open for subscription only to qualified institutional buyers.
(d) The above financial statements shall be accompanied with the auditor’s report
along with the requisite schedules, footnotes, summary etc.
(e) Key operational and financial parameters on consolidated and standalone
basis 50[in respect of the financial information provided under clauses (a) to (c)
above].
For Non-Financial Sector Entities:
Standalone basis:
50 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024.
Page 79 of 81

[Page 44]
Balance Sheet
Property,  Plant  and  Equipment
(including Capital Work in Progress
and Investment Property)
Intangible Assets (including Intangible
Assets under Development)
Financial Assets (Current and Non-
Current)
Other Non-Current assets
Current assets
Total Assets
Financial Liabilities (Current and Non-
Current) 
- Borrowings (including interest)
- Other Financial Liabilities
Non-Current Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Provisions
Total Liabilities
Equity (Equity Share Capital and Other
Equity)
Total Equity and Liabilities
Profit and Loss
Total revenue from operations
Other Income
Total Income
Total Expenses
Profit/ loss for the period
Other Comprehensive income
Total Comprehensive Income
Earnings per equity share: 
(a) basic; and 
(b) diluted
Cash Flow
Net cash (used in)/ generated from
operating activities (A)
Net cash (used in)/ generated from
investing activities (B)
Net cash (used in)/ generated from
financing activities (C)
Net Increase/ (decrease) in Cash and
Page 80 of 81

[Page 45]
Cash Equivalents
Opening Balance of Cash and Cash
Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at end of
the period
Consolidated basis:
Balance Sheet
Property,  Plant  and  Equipment
(including Capital Work in Progress
and Investment Property)
Intangible Assets (including Intangible
Assets under Development)
Financial Assets (Current and Non-
Current)
Other Non-Current assets
Current assets
Total Assets
Financial Liabilities (Current and Non-
Current) 
- Borrowings (including interest)
- Other Financial Liabilities
Non-Current Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Provisions
Total Liabilities
Equity (Equity Share Capital and Other
Equity)
Total Equity and Liabilities
Profit and Loss
Total revenue from operations
Other Income
Total Income
Total Expenses
Profit / loss for the period
Other Comprehensive income
Total Comprehensive Income
Earnings per equity share: 
(a) basic; and 
(b) diluted
Page 81 of 81

[Page 46]
Cash Flow
Net cash (used in)/ generated from
operating activities (A)
Net cash (used in) / generated from
investing activities (B)
Net cash (used in)/ generated from
financing activities (C)
Net Increase/ (decrease) in Cash and
Cash Equivalents
Opening Balance of Cash and Cash
Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at end of
the period
Additional information
Net worth
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Current Investments
Net Sales
Earnings  before  interest,  taxes,
depreciation, and amortization
Earnings before interest and taxes
Dividend amounts
Debt equity ratio
Debt service coverage ratio
Interest service coverage ratio
Current ratio
Long term debt to working capital
Current liability ratio - current liabilities/
non-current liabilities
Total debts to total assets
For Financial Sector Entities:
Standalone basis:
For financial sector entities, unless otherwise specified by concerned sectoral regulator, key
operational parameters shall be as per the format specified below:
Particulars 
BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Property, Plant and Equipment
Page 82 of 81

[Page 47]
Financial Assets
Non-financial Assets excluding property
, plant and equipment
Total Assets
 
Liabilities 
Financial Liabilities
  -Derivative financial instruments
  -Trade Payables
  -Debt Securities
  -Borrowings  (other  than  Debt
Securities)
  -Subordinated liabilities
  -Other financial liabilities
Non-Financial Liabilities
  -Current tax liabilities (net)
  -Provisions
  -Deferred tax liabilities (net)
  -Other non-financial liabilities
 
Equity (Equity Share Capital and Other
Equity)
Total Liabilities and Equity
 
 
PROFIT AND LOSS
Revenue from operations
Other Income
Total Income
 
Total Expense
 
Profit after tax for the year
Other Comprehensive income
Total Comprehensive Income
 
Earnings per equity share (Basic)
Earnings per equity share (Diluted)
 
Cash Flow
Net cash from / used in(-) operating
Page 83 of 81

[Page 48]
activities
Net cash from / used in(-) investing
activities
Net cash from / used in (-)financing
activities
Net increase/decrease(-) in cash and
cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents  as per
Cash Flow Statement as at end of Half
Year
Additional Information
Net worth
Cash and cash equivalents
Loans
Loans (Principal Amount)
Total Debts to Total Assets
Interest Income
Interest Expense
Impairment on Financial Instruments
Bad Debts to Loans
% Stage 3 Loans on Loans(Principal
Amount)
%  Net  Stage  3  Loans  on  Loans
(Principal Amount)
Tier I Capital Adequacy Ratio (%)
Tier II Capital Adequacy Ratio (%)
Consolidated basis:
Particulars 
BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Property, Plant and Equipment
Financial Assets
Non-financial Assets excluding
Property  ,  Plant  and
Equipment
Total Assets
 
Liabilities
Financial Liabilities
 -Derivative  financial
Page 84 of 81

[Page 49]
instruments
 -Trade Payables
 -Other Payables
 -Debt Securities
 -Borrowings (other than Debt
Securities)
 -Deposits
 -Subordinated liabilities
 -Lease liabilities
 -Other financial liabilities
Non-Financial Liabilities
 -Current tax liabilities (net)
 -Provisions
 -Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 -Other non-financial liabilities
 
Equity (Equity Share Capital
and Other Equity)
Non-controlling interest
Total Liabilities and Equity
 
 
PROFIT AND LOSS
Revenue from operations
Other Income
Total Income
 
Total Expenses
 
Profit after tax for the year
Other Comprehensive Income
Total  Comprehensive
Income
 
Earnings  per  equity  share
(Basic)
Earnings  per  equity  share
(Diluted)
Cash Flow
Net  cash from  / used in(-)
operating activities
Page 85 of 81

[Page 50]
Net  cash from  / used in(-)
investing activities
Net  cash  from  /  used  in
(-)financing activities
Net  increase/decrease(-)  in
cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents as
per Cash Flow Statement as at
end of Half Year
 
Additional Information
Net worth
Cash and cash equivalents
Loans
Total Debts to Total Assets
Interest Income
Interest Expense
Impairment  on  Financial
Instruments
Bad Debts to Loans
(f) Details of any other contingent liabilities of the issuer, based on the latest
audited financial statements including amount and nature of liability.
(g) The amount of corporate guarantee or letter of comfort issued by the issuer
along  with details  of  the counterparty  (viz.  name  and nature  of  the
counterparty, whether a subsidiary, joint venture entity, group company etc.)
on behalf of whom it has been issued.
3.3.11. A brief history of the issuer since its incorporation giving details of its following
activities: 
(a) Details of Share Capital as at last quarter end:
Share Capital Amount
Authorized Share Capital
Issued,  Subscribed  and  Paid-up  Share
Capital
(b) Changes in its capital structure as at last quarter end, for the preceding three
financial years and current financial year:
Date of Change (Annual General Meeting/ Particul
Page 86 of 81

[Page 51]
Extraordinary General Meeting) ars
(c) Details of the equity share capital for the preceding three financial years and
current financial year:
D
at
e
of
Al
lo
t
m
en
t
Nu
mb
er
of
Eq
uity
Sha
res
Fa
ce
V
al
ue
Iss
ue
Pri
ce
Consi
derati
on
(Cash
,
other
than
cash,
etc.)
Na
tur
e
of
All
ot
m
en
t
Cumulative Re
m
ar
ks
Nu
m
be
r
of
Eq
uit
y
Sh
ar
es
E
q
u
it
y
S
h
a
r
e
C
a
p
it
a
l
E
q
u
it
y
S
h
a
r
e
P
r
e
m
i
u
m
(d) Details of any acquisition of or amalgamation with any entity in the preceding
one year.
(e) Details of any reorganization or reconstruction in the preceding one year:
Type  of
Event
Date  of
Announcemen
t
Date  of
Completi
on
Details
Page 87 of 81

[Page 52]
(f) Details of the shareholding of the company as at the latest quarter end, as per
the format specified under the listing regulations.
(g) List of top ten holders of equity shares of the company as at the latest quarter
end:
S
.
N
o
.
Name of
the
shareho
lders
Total
number
of Equity
Shares
Number of
shares  in
demat
form
Total
shareholdi
ng as % of
total
number of
equity
shares
3.3.12. Following details regarding the directors of the company
(a) Details of the current directors of the company:
Name,
Design
ation
and
DIN
A
g
e
Add
res
s
Date of
appointme
nt
Details of
other
directorship
(b) Details of change in directors in the preceding three financial years and current
financial year:
Name
,
Desig
natio
n and
DIN
Date of
Appointm
ent
Date of
Cessatio
n, if
applicabl
e
Date
of
resig
natio
n, if
applic
able
Re
ma
rk
s
(c) Details of directors’ remuneration, and such particulars of the nature and extent
of their interests in the issuer (during the current year and preceding three
financial years): 
Page 88 of 81

[Page 53]
(i) Remuneration payable or paid to a director by the issuer, its
subsidiary or associate company; shareholding of the director in
the company, its subsidiaries and associate companies on a fully
diluted basis;
(ii) Appointment of any relatives to an office or place of profit of the
issuer, its subsidiary or associate company;
(iii) Full particulars of the nature and extent of interest, if any, of every
director:
A. in the promotion of the issuer company; or
B. in any immoveable property acquired by the issuer company
in the two years preceding the date of the issue document or
any immoveable property proposed to be acquired by it; or
C. where the interest of such a director consists in being a
member of a firm or company, the nature and extent of his
interest in the firm or company, with a statement of all sums
paid or agreed to be paid to him or to the firm or company in
cash or shares or otherwise by any person either to induce
him to become, or to help him qualify as a director, or
otherwise for services rendered by him or by the firm or
company, in connection with the promotion or formation of the
issuer company shall be disclosed.
(d) Contribution being made by the directors as part of the offer or separately in
furtherance of such objects.
3.3.13. Any financial or other material interest of the directors, promoters, key managerial
personnel or senior management in the offer and the effect of such interest in so far
as it is different from the interests of other persons. 
3.3.14. Following details regarding the auditors of the issuer:
(a) Details of the auditor of the Issuer:
Name  of  the
Auditor
Address Date  of
Appointment
(b) Details of change in auditor for preceding three financial years and current financial
year:
Na Addres Date of Date of Date of
Page 89 of 81

[Page 54]
me
of
the
Au
dit
or
s Appointme
nt
cessatio
n, if
applica
ble
Resignati
on, if
applicabl
e
3.3.15. Details of the following liabilities of the issuer, as at the end of the preceding quarter,
or if available, a later date:
(a) Details of outstanding secured loan facilities:
Na
me
of
len
der
Type
of
Facili
ty
Amou
nt
Sanct
ioned
Pri
nci
pal
Am
ou
nt
out
sta
ndi
ng
Rep
aym
ent
Dat
e/S
che
dul
e
Sec
urit
y
Cre
dit
Rati
ng,
if
app
lica
ble
Ass
et
Cla
ssifi
cati
on
(b) Details of outstanding unsecured loan facilities:
Nam
e of
lend
er
Typ
e of
Fac
ility
Amount
Sanction
ed
Principa
l
Amount
outstan
ding
Repaym
ent Date
/
Schedul
e
Credit
Rating, if
applicabl
e
(c) Details of outstanding non-convertible securities in the following format:
S
e
r
i
e
s
IS
IN
T
e
n
or
/
P
Co
up
on
Am
oun
t
out
sta
ndi
Dat
e of
Allo
tme
nt
Red
em
ptio
n
Dat
e/
Cr
ed
it
Ra
ti
ng
Se
cu
re
d
/
un
S
e
c
u
ri
t
Page 90 of 81

[Page 55]
o
f
N
C
S
er
io
d
of
M
at
ur
it
y
ng Sch
edu
le
se
cu
re
d
y
(d) Details of commercial paper issuances as at the end of the last quarter in the following
format:
S
e
r
i
e
s
 
o
f
 
N
C
S
I
S
I
N
T
e
n
or
/
P
er
io
d
of
M
at
ur
it
y
Co
up
on
A
m
ou
nt
ou
tst
an
di
ng
Da
te
of
All
ot
m
en
t
Re
de
m
pti
on
Da
te/
Sc
he
du
le
Cr
ed
it
Ra
ti
ng
Se
cu
re
d
/
un
se
cu
re
d
Se
cu
rit
y
Ot
he
r
de
tai
ls
viz
.
de
tai
ls
of
Is
su
in
g
an
d
Pa
yi
ng
Ag
en
t,
de
tai
ls
of
Cr
ed
Page 91 of 81

[Page 56]
it
Ra
tin
g
Ag
en
ci
es
(e) List of top ten holders of non-convertible securities in terms of value (on a cumulative
basis):
S
.
N
o
.
Name of
holders 
Categor
y of
holder
Face
value
of
holdi
ng
Holding as a %  of
total outstanding
non-convertible
securities of the
issuer
(f) List of top ten holders of Commercial Paper in terms of value (in cumulative basis):
S
.
N
o
.
Name
of
holder
Category
of holder
Face
value of
holding
Holding as a %  of
total commercial
paper outstanding
of the issuer
(g) Details of the bank fund based facilities/ rest of the borrowing (if any, including hybrid
debt  like  Foreign  Currency  Convertible  Bonds  (FCCB),  Optionally  Convertible
Debentures/ Preference Shares) from financial institutions or financial creditors:
Name
of
Party
(in
case
of
facilit
y)/
Nam
e of
Type
of
facilit
y /
Instr
umen
t
Am
oun
t
san
ctio
ned
/
issu
ed
Princ
ipal
Amo
unt
outst
andin
g
Date
of
Repa
ymen
t/
Sche
dule
Cre
dit
Rati
ng
S
e
c
ur
e
d/
U
n
s
e
S
e
c
u
r
i
t
y
Page 92 of 81

[Page 57]
Instr
umen
t
c
ur
e
d
3.3.16. The amount of corporate guarantee or letter of comfort issued by the issuer along
with name of the counterparty (like name of the subsidiary, joint venture entity, group
company, etc.) on behalf of whom it has been issued, contingent liability including
debt service reserve account guarantees/ any put option etc. (Details of any
outstanding borrowings taken/ debt securities issued for consideration other than
cash). This information shall be disclosed whether such borrowing/ debt securities
have been taken/ issued:
● in whole or part,
● at a premium or discount, or
● in pursuance of an option or not.
3.3.17. Where the issuer is a Non-Banking Finance Company (NBFC) or Housing Finance
Company, the following disclosures on Asset Liability Management (ALM) shall be
provided for the latest audited financials:
S.
No.
Particulars of
disclosure
Details
1. Details  with  regard  to
lending done out of the
issue proceeds of earlier
issuances  of  debt
securities (whether public
issue  or  private
placement) by the issuer
Lending  Policy
Classification of Loans given
to  associate  or  entities
related  to  Board,  Key
Managerial  Personnel  and
Senior  Management,
promoters,  etc.
Classification of loans into
several  maturity  profile
denomination,
Aggregated exposure to top
20  borrowers
Details  of  loans,  overdue
and  classified  as  Non-
performing assets (NPA)
2. Details  of  borrowings
granted by issuer
Portfolio  Summary  of
borrowings made by issuer
Quantum and percentage of
Page 93 of 81

[Page 58]
S.
No.
Particulars of
disclosure
Details
Secured  vs.
Unsecured borrowings
3. Details  of  change  in
shareholding 
Any change in promoters’
shareholding in the issuer
during  preceding  financial
year beyond the threshold
prescribed by Reserve Bank
of India
4. Disclosure  of  Assets
under-management
Segment wise break up and
type of loans
5. Details of borrowers Geographical location wise
6. Details of Gross NPA Segment wise
7. Details  of  Assets  and
Liabilities
Residual  maturity  profile
wise into several bucket
8. Additional details of loans
made by issuer where it
is  a  Housing  Finance
Company
9. Disclosure of latest ALM
statements  to  stock
exchange
3.3.18. Details of all default/s and/or delay in payments of interest and principal of any kind of
term loans, debt securities, commercial paper (including technical delay) and other
financial indebtedness including corporate guarantee or letters of comfort issued by
the company, in the preceding three years and the current financial year.
3.3.19. Any  material  event/  development  or  change  having  implications  on  the
financials/credit  quality  (e.g.  any  material  regulatory  proceedings  against  the
issuer/promoters, litigations resulting in material liabilities, corporate restructuring
event etc.) at the time of issue which may affect the issue or the investor’s decision to
invest / continue to invest in the non-convertible securities/ commercial paper.
3.3.20. Any litigation or legal action pending or taken by a Government Department or a
statutory body or regulatory body during the three years immediately preceding the
year of the issue of the issue document against the promoter of the company.
3.3.21. Details of default and non-payment of statutory dues for the preceding three financial
years and current financial year. 
3.3.22. Details of pending litigation involving the issuer, promoter, director, subsidiaries,
group companies or any other person, whose outcome could have material adverse
Page 94 of 81

[Page 59]
effect on the financial position of the issuer, which may affect the issue or the
investor’s decision to invest / continue to invest in the debt securities and/ or non-
convertible redeemable preference shares.
3.3.23. Details of acts of material frauds committed against the issuer in the preceding three
financial years and current financial year, if any, and if so, the action taken by the
issuer. 
3.3.24. Details of pending proceedings initiated against the issuer for economic offences, if
any.
3.3.25. Related party transactions entered during the preceding three financial years and
current financial year with regard to loans made or, guarantees given or securities
provided. 
3.3.26. The issue document shall not include a statement purporting to be made by an expert
unless the expert is a person who is not, and has not been, engaged or interested in
the formation or promotion or management, of the company and has given his written
consent to the issue of the issue document and has not withdrawn such consent
before the delivery of a copy of the issue document to the Registrar (as applicable)
for registration and a statement to that effect shall be included in the issue document.
3.3.27. In case the issuer is a Non-Banking Finance Company (NBFC) and the objects of the
issue entail loan to any entity who is a ‘group company’ then disclosures shall be
made in the following format:
S
No
.
Name of the
Borrower
(A)
Amount of
Advances
/exposures to
such borrower
(Group) (Rs.
Crore) (B)
Percentage of
Exposure (C)=
B/Total Assets
Under
Management
3.3.28. In order to allow investors to better assess the issue, the following additional
disclosures shall be made by the issuer in the issue documents:  
(i) A portfolio summary with regards to industries/ sectors to which borrowings have
been granted by NBFCs.
(ii) Quantum and percentage of secured vis-à-vis unsecured borrowings granted by
NBFCs.
(iii) Any change in promoters’ holdings in NBFCs during the preceding financial year
beyond the threshold specified by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time.
Page 95 of 81

[Page 60]
3.3.29. Declaration in case of public issue with regards to the following:
(a) procedure of allotment of debt securities and non-convertible redeemable
preference shares and unblocking of funds in case of refund;
(b) a statement by the Board of Directors about the separate bank account where
all monies received out of the issue are to be transferred, and disclosure of
details of all monies including utilised and unutilised monies out of the previous
issue in the prescribed manner;
(c) the details of all utilized and unutilised monies out of the monies collected in
the previous issue made by way of public offer shall be disclosed and
continued to be disclosed in the balance sheet till the time any part of the
proceeds of such previous issue remains unutilized, the purpose for which such
monies have been utilized, and the securities or other forms of financial assets
in which such unutilized monies have been invested; and
(d) the interim use of funds, if any.
3.3.30. Disclaimer Clauses:
(a) The issue document shall contain the following disclaimer clause in bold and  
capital letters:
“It is to be distinctly understood that filing of the issue document to the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) should not in any way be deemed or
construed to mean that the same has been cleared or approved by SEBI. SEBI
does not take any responsibility either for the financial soundness of any
scheme or the project for which the issue is proposed to be made or for the
correctness of the statements made or opinions expressed in the issue
document. The lead manager(s), has certified that the disclosures made in the
issue document are generally adequate and are in conformity with the
regulations. This requirement is to facilitate investors to take an informed
decision for making investment in the proposed issue.”
(b) Disclaimer Statement from the issuer and lead manager(s):   A statement to the
effect that the issuer and the lead manager(s) accept no responsibility for
statements made otherwise than in the issue document or in the advertisement
or any other material issued by or at the instance of the issuer and that anyone
placing reliance on any other source of information would be doing so at their
own risk.
(c) Disclaimer in respect of jurisdiction:   A brief paragraph mentioning the jurisdiction
under which provisions of law and the rules and regulations are applicable to the
Page 96 of 81

[Page 61]
issue document.
(d) Disclaimer clause of the stock exchanges and Credit Rating Agencies.   
(e) Disclaimer clause of the Reserve Bank of India, the Insurance Regulatory and  
Development Authority of India or of any other relevant regulatory authority.
3.3.31. Consent of directors, auditors, bankers to issue, 51[***] solicitors or advocates to the
issue, legal advisors to the issue, lead managers to the issue, Registrar to the Issue,
and lenders (if required, as per the terms of the agreement) and experts.
3.3.32. 52[The names of the debenture trustees(s), a statement to the effect that the
debenture trustee has consented to its appointment along with a copy of the
agreement executed by the debenture trustee with the issuer in accordance with
regulation 13 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees)
Regulations, 1993 made accessible through a web-link or a static quick response
code displayed in the issue document: 
Provided that in case the issuer files a general information document or shelf
prospectus, the issuer may disclose a copy of the letter obtained from the debenture
trustee consenting to its appointment instead of the agreement. 
Explanation: In case the issuer files a key information document or tranche
prospectus in accordance with these regulations, the issuer shall disclose a copy of
the agreement stated above.]
3.3.33. If the security is backed by a guarantee or letter of comfort or any other document of
a similar nature, a copy of the same shall be disclosed. In case such document does
not contain the detailed payment structure (procedure of invocation of guarantee and
receipt of payment by the investor along with timelines), the same shall be disclosed
in the issue document.
3.3.34. Disclosure of cash flow with date of interest/dividend/ redemption payment as per day
count convention:
(a) The day count convention for dates on which the payments in relation to the non-
convertible securities which need to be made, should be disclosed.
(b) Procedure and time schedule for allotment and issue of securities should be
51 The word and symbol “trustees,” deleted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 11-12-2024. 
52 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 11-12-2024. Prior to substitution, it read as “The names of the debenture trustee(s) shall be mentioned with a statement to the effect 
that debenture trustee(s) has given its consent for appointment along with the copy of the consent letter from the debenture trustee”.
Page 97 of 81

[Page 62]
disclosed.
(c) Cash flows emanating from the non-convertible securities shall be mentioned in
the issue document, by way of an illustration.
3.3.35. Undertaking by the Issuer:
(a) Investors are advised to read the risk factors carefully before taking an
investment decision in this issue. For taking an investment decision, investors
must rely on their own examination of the issuer and the offer including the
risks involved. The securities have not been recommended or approved by the
any regulatory authority in India, including the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (SEBI) nor does SEBI guarantee the accuracy or adequacy of this
document. Specific attention of investors is invited to the statement of ‘Risk
factors’ given on page number under the section ‘General Risks’.
(b) The Issuer, having made all reasonable inquiries, accepts responsibility for,
and confirms that this issue document contains all information with regard to
the issuer and the issue, that the information contained in the issue document
is true and correct in all material aspects and is not misleading in any material
respect, that the opinions and intentions expressed herein are honestly held
and that there are no other facts, the omission of which make this document as
a whole or any of such information or the expression of any such opinions or
intentions misleading in any material respect.
(c) The issuer has no side letter with any debt securities holder except the one(s)
disclosed in the issue document. Any covenants later added shall be disclosed
on the stock exchange website where the debt is listed.
3.3.36. Risk factors:
(a) Risk factors shall be disclosed in the descending order of materiality. Wherever
risks about material impact are stated, likely or potential implications should be
disclosed.
(b) Risk factors if applicable, should include but not be limited to the following:
(i) Risks in relation to the non-convertible securities.
(ii) Risks in relation to the security created in relation to the debt securities, if
any.
(iii) Refusal of listing of any security of the issuer during preceding three
financial years and current financial year by any of the stock exchanges in
Page 98 of 81

[Page 63]
India or abroad.
(iv) Limited or sporadic trading of non-convertible securities of the issuer on
the stock exchanges.
(v) In case of outstanding debt instruments or deposits or borrowings, any
default in compliance with the material covenants such as creation of
security as per terms agreed, default in payment of interest, default in
redemption or repayment, non-creation of debenture redemption reserve,
default in payment of penal interest wherever applicable.
(vi) If secured, any risks in relation to maintenance of security cover or full
recovery of the security in case of enforcement
(vii) A risk factor to state that while the debenture is secured against a charge
to the tune of 100% of the principal and interest amount in favour of
debenture trustee, and it is the duty of the debenture trustee to monitor
that the security is maintained, however, the possibility of recovery of
100% of the amount shall depend on the market scenario prevalent at the
time of enforcement of the security.
(viii) All covenants including the accelerated payment covenants given by way
of side letters shall be incorporated in the issue document by the issuer.
(c) The issuer shall make a declaration about the compliance and a statement to
the effect that nothing in the issue document is contrary to the provisions of
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act,
1956 (42 of 1956) and the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15
of 1992) and the rules and regulations made thereunder.
3.3.37. 53[The persons authorised by the issuer shall attest that:]
(a) the issuer is in compliance with the provisions of Securities Contracts
(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) and the Securities and Exchange Board of
India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and the rules
and regulations made thereunder;
(b) the compliance with the Acts and the rules and regulations does not imply that
payment of dividend or interest or repayment of non-convertible securities, is
guaranteed by the Central Government;
53 Substituted for the words “The directors in case of a body corporate and such authorized persons in case the issuer is not a body 
corporate shall attest that” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024.
Page 99 of 81

[Page 64]
(c) the monies received under the offer shall be used only for the purposes and
objects indicated in the issue document;
(d) whatever is stated in this form and in the attachments thereto is true, correct
and complete and no information material to the subject matter of this form has
been suppressed or concealed and is as per the original records maintained by
the promoters subscribing to the Memorandum of Association and Articles of
Association;
(e) The following clause on ‘General Risk’ shall be incorporated in a box format:
“Investment in non-convertible securities is risky, and investors should not
invest any funds in such securities unless they can afford to take the risk
attached to such investments. Investors are advised to take an informed
decision and to read the risk factors carefully before investing in this offering.
For taking an investment decision, investors must rely on their examination of
the issue including the risks involved in it. Specific attention of investors is
invited to statement of risk factors contained under Section [•] of this issue
document. These risks are not, and are not intended to be, a complete list of
all risks and considerations relevant to the non-convertible securities or
investor’s decision to purchase such securities.”
54[(f) The contents of the document have been perused by the Board of Directors,
and the final and ultimate responsibility of the contents mentioned herein shall
also lie with the Board of Directors. 
The following shall be the authorised persons in case the issuer is a body
corporate:
i. executive Chairperson and compliance officer; or
ii. Managing Director or Chief Executive Officer and compliance officer; or
iii. Chief Financial Officer and compliance officer; or
iv. whole-time director and compliance officer; or
v. any two key managerial personnel.
(g) they are duly authorised to attest as per this clause by the board of directors or
the governing body, as the case may be, by a resolution, a copy of which is
also disclosed in the offer document.]
54 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024.
Page 100 of 81

[Page 65]
3.3.38. In case of an issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares, the following
specific disclosure on the nature of the instrument in bold, on the cover page:
“Instruments offered through the issue document are non-convertible redeemable
preference  shares  and  not  debentures/bonds.  They  are  riskier  than
debentures/bonds and may not carry any guaranteed coupon and can be redeemed
only out of the distributable profits of the company or out of the proceeds of a fresh
issue of shares made, if any, by the company for the purposes of the redemption.”
3.3.39. Other details:
(a) Creation of Debenture Redemption Reserve (DRR) / Capital Redemption
Reserve (CRR) - relevant legislations and applicability
(b) Issue/instrument specific regulations - relevant details (Companies Act, 2013 (18
of 2013), guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India, etc.)
(c) Default in payment
(d) Delay in listing
(e) Delay in allotment of securities
(f) Issue details
(g) Application process
(h) Disclosure required under form PAS-4 under Companies (Prospectus and
Allotment of Securities), Rules, 2014 but not contained in this schedule, if any.
(i) Project details: gestation period of the project; extent of progress made in the
project; deadlines for completion of the project; the summary of the project
appraisal report (if any), schedule of implementation of the project;
3.3.40. Other Details in case of non-convertible redeemable preference shares issue:
(a) Nature of the instrument: whether cumulative or non-cumulative and complete
details thereof;
(b) Terms of Redemption: Out of distributable profits or out of fresh issue of shares
for the purpose of redemption or both.
3.3.41. The issue document shall include the following other matters and reports, namely: 
Page 101 of 81

[Page 66]
(a) If the proceeds, or any part of the proceeds, of the issue of the debt
securities/non-convertible redeemable preference shares are or is to be applied
directly or indirectly:
(i) in the purchase of any business; or 
(ii) in the purchase of an interest in any business and by reason of that
purchase, or anything to be done in consequence thereof, or in connection
therewith, 
the company shall become entitled to an interest in either the capital or profits
and losses or both, in such business exceeding fifty per cent. thereof, a report
made by a chartered accountant (who shall be named in the issue document)
upon – 
A. the profits or losses of the business for each of the three financial years
immediately preceding the date of the issue of the issue document; and 
B. the assets and liabilities of the business as on the latest date to which the
accounts of the business were made up, being a date not more than one
hundred and twenty days before the date of the issue of the issue
document.
(b) In purchase or acquisition of any immoveable property including indirect
acquisition of immoveable property for which advances have been paid to third
parties, disclosures regarding:
(i) the names, addresses, descriptions and occupations of the vendors; 
(ii) the amount paid or payable in cash, to the vendor and where there is more than
one vendor, or the company is a sub-purchaser, the amount so paid or payable
to each vendor, specifying separately the amount, if any, paid or payable for
goodwill; 
(iii) the nature of the title or interest in such property proposed to be acquired by the
company; and 
(iv) the particulars of every transaction relating to the property completed within the
two preceding years, in which any vendor of the property or any person who is or
was at the time of the transaction, a promoter or a director or proposed director
of the company, had any interest, direct or indirect, specifying the date of the
transaction and the name of such promoter, director or proposed director and
stating the amount payable by or to such vendor, promoter, director or proposed
director in respect of the transaction:
Page 102 of 81

[Page 67]
55[Provided that the disclosures specified in sub-clauses (i) to (iv) above shall be
provided for the top five vendors on the basis of value viz. sale consideration payable
to the vendors. 
Provided further that for the remaining vendors, such details may be provided on an
aggregated basis in the offer document, specifying number of vendors from whom it
is being acquired and the aggregate value being paid; and the detailed disclosures
as specified in sub-clauses (i) to (iv) above may be provided by way of static QR
code and web link. If the issuer provides the said details in the form of a static QR
code and web link, the same shall be provided to the debenture trustee as  well and
kept available for inspection as specified in clause (g) of paragraph 3.3.41 of this
Schedule. A checklist item in the ‘Security and Covenant Monitoring System’ shall
also be included for providing the detailed disclosures, as specified in sub-clauses (i)
to (iv) above, to the debenture trustee and confirmation of the same by the debenture
trustee.]
(c) If:
(i) the proceeds, or any part of the proceeds, of the issue of the debt
securities/non-convertible redeemable preference shares are or are to be
applied directly or indirectly and in any manner resulting in the acquisition
by the company of shares in any other body corporate; and 
(ii) by reason of that acquisition or anything to be done in consequence
thereof or in connection therewith, that body corporate shall become a
subsidiary of the company, a report shall be made by a Chartered
Accountant (who shall be named in the issue document) upon – 
A. the profits or losses of the other body corporate for each of the three
financial years immediately preceding the issue of the issue
document; and 
B. the assets and liabilities of the other body corporate as on the latest
date to which its accounts were made up. 
(d) The said report shall:
(i) indicate how the profits or losses of the other body corporate dealt with by
the report would, in respect of the shares to be acquired, have concerned
55 Substituted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non- Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18-09-2024. Prior to substitution, it read as “Provided that if the number of vendors is more than five, then the 
disclosures as required above shall be on an aggregated basis, specifying the immoveable property being acquired on a contiguous basis 
with mention of the location/total area and the number of vendors from whom it is being acquired and the aggregate value being paid. 
Details of minimum amount, the maximum amount and the average amount paid/ payable should also be disclosed for each immovable 
property.”
Page 103 of 81

[Page 68]
members of the issuer company and what allowance would have been
required to be made, in relation to assets and liabilities so dealt with for the
holders of the balance shares, if the issuer company had at all material
times held the shares proposed to be acquired; and 
(ii) where the other body corporate has subsidiaries, deal with the profits or
losses and the assets and liabilities of the body corporate and its
subsidiaries in the manner as provided in paragraph (c) (ii) above.
(e) The broad lending and borrowing policy including summary of the key terms and
conditions of the term loans such as re-scheduling, prepayment, penalty, default;
and where such lending or borrowing is between the issuer and its subsidiaries
or associates, matters relating to terms and conditions of the term loans
including re-scheduling, prepayment, penalty, default shall be disclosed.
(f) The aggregate number of securities of the issuer company and its subsidiary
companies purchased or sold by the promoter group, and by the directors of the
company which is a promoter of the issuer company, and by the directors of the
issuer company and their relatives, within six months immediately preceding the
date of filing the issue document with the Registrar of Companies, shall be
disclosed.
(g) The matters relating to:
(i) Material contracts;
(ii) Time and place at which the contracts together with documents will be
available for inspection from the date of issue document until the date of
closing of subscription list.
(h) Reference to the relevant page number of the audit report which sets out the
details of the related party transactions entered during the three financial years
immediately preceding the issue of issue document.
(i) The summary of reservations or qualifications or adverse remarks of auditors in
the three financial years immediately preceding the year of issue of issue
document, and of their impact on the financial statements and financial position
of the company, and the corrective steps taken and proposed to be taken by the
company for each of the said reservations or qualifications or adverse remarks. 
(j) The details of:
Page 104 of 81

[Page 69]
 any inquiry, inspections or investigations initiated or conducted under the
securities laws or Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or any previous
companies law; 
 prosecutions filed, if any (whether pending or not); and
 fines imposed or offences compounded,
in the three years immediately preceding the year of issue of issue document in
the case of the issuer being a company and all of its subsidiaries. 
(k) The details of acts of material frauds committed against the issuer in the
preceding three financial years and current financial year, if any, and actions
taken by the issuer.
Summary of terms – Terms to be included in the issue document: 
Security Name (Name of the non-convertible securities which
includes (Coupon/dividend, Issuer Name and maturity year) e.g.
8.70% XXX 2015.
Issuer
Type of Instrument
Nature of Instrument (Secured or Unsecured)
Seniority (Senior or Subordinated)
Eligible Investors
Listing (name of stock Exchange(s) where it will be listed and
timeline for listing)
Rating of the Instrument
Issue Size 
Minimum subscription
Option to retain oversubscription (Amount)
Objects of the Issue / Purpose for which there is requirement of
funds
In case the issuer is an NBFC and the objects of the issue entail
loan to any entity who is a ‘group company’ then disclosures
shall be made in the following format:
Details of the utilization of the Proceeds
Coupon / Dividend Rate
Step Up/Step Down Coupon Rate
Coupon/Dividend Payment Frequency
Coupon / Dividend payment dates
Cumulative / non-cumulative, in case of dividend
Coupon Type (Fixed, floating or other structure)
Page 105 of 81

[Page 70]
Coupon Reset Process (including rates, spread, effective date,
interest rate cap and floor etc).
Day Count Basis (Actual/Actual)
Interest on Application Money
Default Interest Rate
Tenor
Redemption Date
Redemption Amount
Redemption Premium /Discount
Issue Price
Discount at which security is issued and the effective yield as a
result of such discount.
Premium/Discount at which security is redeemed and the
effective yield as a result of such premium/discount.
Put Date
Put Price
Call] Date
Call Price
Put Notification Time (Timelines by which the investor need to
intimate Issuer before exercising the put)
Call Notification Time (Timelines by which the Issuer need to
intimate investor before exercising the call)
Face Value
Minimum Application and in multiples of thereafter
Issue Timing
Issue Opening Date
Issue Closing date
Date of earliest closing of the issue, if any.
Pay-in Date
Deemed Date of Allotment
Settlement mode of the Instrument
Depository
Disclosure of Interest/Dividend / redemption dates
Record Date
All covenants of the issue (including side letters, accelerated
payment clause, etc.)
Description regarding Security (where applicable) including
type of security (movable/immovable/tangible etc.), type of
charge (pledge/ hypothecation/ mortgage etc.), date of creation
of security/ likely date of creation of security, minimum security
cover, revaluation
Page 106 of 81

[Page 71]
Replacement of security, interest to the debenture holder over
and above the coupon rate as specified in the Trust Deed and
disclosed in the issue document
Transaction Documents
Conditions Precedent to Disbursement
Condition Subsequent to Disbursement
Event of Default (including manner of voting /conditions of
joining Inter Creditor Agreement)
Creation of recovery expense fund
Conditions for breach of covenants (as specified in Debenture
Trust Deed)
Provisions related to Cross Default Clause
Role and Responsibilities of Debenture Trustee
Risk factors pertaining to the issue
Governing Law and Jurisdiction
Notes:
(a) If there is any change in coupon rate pursuant to any event including lapse of certain time
period or downgrade in rating, then such new coupon rate and the events which lead to such
change should be disclosed.
(b) The list of documents which have been executed in connection with the issue and subscription
of debt securities shall be annexed.
(c) While the debt securities are secured to the extent of hundred per cent. of the amount of
principal and interest or as per the terms of issue document, in favour of debenture trustee, it is
the duty of the debenture trustee to monitor that the security is maintained. 
(d) The issuer shall provide granular disclosures in their issue document, with regards to the
“Object of the Issue” including the percentage of the issue proceeds earmarked for each of the
“object of the issue”. Further, the amount earmarked “General Corporate Purposes”, shall not
exceed twenty-five per cent.  of the amount raised by the issuer in the proposed issue
(applicable in case of public issue).
Page 107 of 81

[Page 72]
SCHEDULE II
56[***]
56 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2023, w.e.f. 06-07-2023.
Page 108 of 81

[Page 73]
SCHEDULE III
FORMAT FOR DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE LEAD MANAGERS AT THE TIME OF
FILING THE OFFER DOCUMENT WITH REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES AND PRIOR TO OPENING OF THE
ISSUE 
[See regulation [27 (6)] ]
To,
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA
Dear Sir / Madam,
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________LTD.
(1) We confirm that neither the issuer nor its promoters or directors have been prohibited from accessing the
capital market under any order or direction passed by the Board. We also confirm that none of the intermediaries
named in the offer document have been debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority.
(2) We confirm that all the material disclosures in respect of the issuer have been made in the offer
document and certify that any material development in the issue or relating to the issue up to the commencement
of listing and trading of the securities offered through this issue shall be informed through public notices/
advertisements in all those newspapers in which pre issue advertisement and advertisement for opening or
closure of the issue have been given.
(3) We confirm that the offer document contains all disclosures as specified in the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021.
(4) We also confirm that all relevant provisions of the Companies Act, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act,
1956, Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and the Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Circulars
issued thereunder are complied with.
We confirm that all comments/ complaints received on the draft offer document filed on the website of ________
(designated stock exchange) have been suitably addressed.
PLACE
DATE: LEAD MANAGER (S)
Page 83 of 81

[Page 74]
57[SCHEDULE IV
FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE DEBENTURE TRUSTEE
Part A
[See Regulation 40(1)(a)]
FORMAT   OF   DUE   DILIGENCE   CERTIFICATE   TO   BE   GIVEN   BY   THE   DEBENTURE
TRUSTEE   AT   THE   TIME   OF   FILING   OF   DRAFT   OFFER   DOCUMENT   AND   BEFORE
OPENING OF THE ISSUE
To, 
Stock Exchange 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________LTD. 
We, the Debenture Trustee (s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows: 
(1) We have examined documents pertaining to the said issue and other such relevant documents, reports
and certifications. 
(2) On the basis of such examination and of the discussions with the issuer, its directors and other officers,
other  agencies  and  of  independent  verification  of  the  various  relevant  documents,  reports  and
certifications, WE CONFIRM that: 
(a) The  issuer  has  made  adequate  provisions  for  and/or  has  taken  steps  to  provide  for
adequate security for the debt securities to be issued. 
(b) The  issuer  has  obtained  the  permissions  /  consents  necessary  for  creating  security  on
the  said property (ies). 
57 Substituted by the by the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 10-07-2024. Prior to substitution, it read as follows:
“FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE DEBENTURE TRUSTEE 
See [Regulation 40(a)] and [Regulation 44(3)(a)] 
FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE DEBENTURE TRUSTEE BEFORE OPENING OF THE
ISSUE
To,
STOCK EXCHANGE / SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA
Dear Sir / Madam,
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________LTD.
We, the Debenture Trustee (s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows:
(1) We have examined documents pertaining to the said issue and other such relevant documents.
(2) On the basis of such examination and of the discussions with the issuer, its directors and other officers, other agencies and of
independent verification of the various relevant documents,
WE CONFIRM that:
(a) The issuer has made adequate provisions for and/or has taken steps to provide for adequate security for the debt securities to be issued.
(b) The issuer has obtained the permissions / consents necessary for creating security on the said property (ies).
(c) The issuer has made all the relevant disclosures about the security and also its continued obligations towards the holders of debt securities.
(d) All disclosures made in the offer document with respect to the debt securities are true, fair and adequate to enable the investors to make
a well informed decision as to the investment in the proposed issue. 
PLACE:
DATE:
DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE WITH  RUBBER STAMP”
Page 84 of 81

[Page 75]
(c) The  issuer  has  made  all  the  relevant  disclosures  about  the  security  and  also  its
continued obligations towards the holders of debt securities. 
(d) Issuer has adequately disclosed all consents/ permissions required for creation of further charge
on assets in offer document/ placement memorandum and all disclosures made in the offer
document/ placement memorandum with respect to creation of security are  in confirmation with
the clauses of debenture trustee agreement. 
(e) Issuer has disclosed all covenants proposed to be included in debenture trust deed (including any
side letter, accelerated payment clause etc.), in the offer document/ placement memorandum. 
(f) Issuer has given an undertaking that charge shall be created in favour of debenture trustee as per
terms of issue before filing of listing application. 
PLACE: 
DATE: 
DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE WITH HIS RUBBER STAMP
Part B
[See Regulation 40(2)(a) and Regulation 44(3)(a)]
FORMAT   OF   DUE   DILIGENCE   CERTIFICATE   TO   BE   GIVEN   BY   THE   DEBENTURE
TRUSTEE AT THE TIME OF FILING OF LISTING APPLICATION BY ISSUER
To, 
Stock Exchange 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________LTD. 
We, the Debenture Trustee (s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows: 
(1) We have examined documents pertaining to creation of charge over assets of Issuer. 
(2) On the basis of such examination and of the discussions with the issuer, its directors and other officers,
other  agencies  and  of  independent  verification  of  the  various  relevant  documents,  reports  and
certifications, WE CONFIRM that: 
(a) The  Issuer  has  created  charge  over  its  assets  in  favour  of  debenture  trustee  as  per  terms
of  offer document/ placement memorandum and debenture trustee agreement. 
(b) Issuer  has  executed  the  debenture  trust  deed  as  per  the  terms  of  offer  document/
placement memorandum and debenture trustee agreement. 
(c) The Issuer has given an undertaking that charge shall be registered with Sub-registrar, Registrar of
Companies,   Central   Registry   of   Securitization   Asset   Reconstruction   and   Security
Interest (CERSAI),  Depository  etc.,  as  applicable,  within  30  days  of  creation  of  charge.  The
issuer  has made  all  the  relevant  disclosures,  which  are  true,  fair  and  adequate,  including
that  about  the security and also its continued obligations towards the holders of debt securities. 
PLACE: 
Page 85 of 81

[Page 76]
DATE: 
DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE WITH HIS RUBBER STAMP]
Page 86 of 81

[Page 77]
58[SCHEDULE IV-A
FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE DEBENTURE TRUSTEE
Part A
[See Regulation 40(1)(b)]
FORMAT   OF   DUE   DILIGENCE   CERTIFICATE   TO   BE   GIVEN   BY   THE   DEBENTURE 
TRUSTEE   AT   THE   TIME   OF   FILING   OF   DRAFT   OFFER   DOCUMENT   AND   BEFORE 
OPENING OF THE ISSUE  
To, 
Stock Exchange 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________LTD. 
We, the Debenture Trustee (s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows: 
(1) We  have  examined documents pertaining to the  said issue  and other such relevant documents,
reports and certifications. 
(2) On the basis of such examination and of the discussions with the issuer, its directors and other officers,
other  agencies  and  of  independent  verification  of  the  various  relevant  documents,  reports  and
certifications, WE CONFIRM that: 
58 Substituted by the by the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 10-07-2024. Prior to substitution, it read as follows:
“SCHEDULE IVA
FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE DEBENTURE TRUSTEE
[See Regulation 40(b) and Regulation 44(3)(b)]
FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE DEBENTURE TRUSTEE BEFORE OPENING OF THE
ISSUE
To
STOCK EXCHANGE/ SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
Dear Sir / Madam,
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________LTD. 
We, the Debenture Trustee(s) to the above-mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows: 
1)We have examined documents pertaining to the said issue and other such relevant documents, reports and certifications. 
2) On the basis of such examination and the discussions with the issuer, its directors and other officers, other agencies and on independent 
verification of the various relevant documents, reports and certifications: 
WE CONFIRM that: 
a) All disclosures made in the offer document with respect to the debt securities are true, fair and adequate to enable the investors to make a well-
informed decision as to the investment in the proposed issue.
b) Issuer has disclosed all covenants proposed to be included in debenture trust deed (including any side letter, accelerated payment clause etc.), 
in the offer document.
c) Issuer has given an undertaking that debenture trust deed shall be executed before filing of listing application. 
Place:
Date:
DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE WITH RUBBER STAMP”. It was inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 11-04-2022.
Page 85 of 81

[Page 78]
(a) All  disclosures  made  in  the  offer  document  with  respect  to  the  debt  securities  are  true,  fair
and adequate  to  enable  the  investors  to  make  a  well  informed  decision  as  to  the  investment
in  the proposed issue. 
(b) Issuer  has  disclosed  all  covenants  proposed  to  be  included  in  debenture  trust  deed
(including  any side letter, accelerated payment clause etc.), in the offer document.
(c) Issuer has given an undertaking that the debenture trust deed shall be executed before the filing of
listing application. 
PLACE: 
DATE: 
DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE WITH HIS RUBBER STAMP
Part B
[See Regulation 40(2)(b) and Regulation 44(3)(b)]
FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE DEBENTURE TRUSTEE
AT THE TIME OF FILING OF LISTING APPLICATION BY ISSUER
To, Stock Exchange
Dear Sir / Madam,
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________LTD.
We, the Debenture Trustee (s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows: 
(1) On the basis of examination of documents pertaining to the issue and of the discussions with the
issuer, its directors and other officers, other agencies and of independent verification of the various
relevant documents, reports and certifications, WE CONFIRM that: 
(a) Issuer  has  executed  the  debenture  trust  deed  as  per  the  terms  of  offer  document/
placement memorandum and debenture trustee agreement. 
(b) The  issuer  has  made  all  the  relevant  disclosures,  which  are  true,  fair  and  adequate
and  also  its continued obligations towards the holders of debt securities. 
PLACE: 
DATE: 
DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE WITH HIS RUBBER STAMP]
Page 86 of 81

[Page 79]
SCHEDULE V
FORMAT OF ADVERTISEMENTS FOR PUBLIC ISSUES OF DEBT SECURITIES AND NON-
CONVERTIBLE REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES 
[See Regulation 30(1)]
This is an advertisement for information purposes
_________ _________ LIMITED
(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as ________________
and subsequently renamed ______________ on __________)
Registered Office: _____________________ Tel: _______________ 
Corporate Office: _____________________ Tel: _______________ 
E-mail: _____________ Website: _____________________________
THE ISSUE
Public issue of ___________ debt securities/non convertible redeemable preference shares of Rs. ____ each at
a price of Rs._____ (Summary Details of Coupon, Dividend, Redemption, etc shall be disclosed)
PROMOTERS
XXXX
PROPOSED LISTING
Names of Stock Exchanges
LEAD MANAGERS
(Names)
COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF THE ISSUER
Name, address, telephone numbers, email ID, website address
CREDIT RATING
(The rating obtained shall be disclosed prominently along with the meaning of the same)
DEBENTURE TRUSTEES
( Names)
AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS
Names of Issuer, Lead Managers, etc. (Addresses optional)
AVAILABILITY OF OFFER DOCUMENT
Page 87 of 81

[Page 80]
Investors are advised to refer the offer document, and the risk factors contained therein, before applying in the 
issue. Full copy of the offer document is available on websites of issuer / lead manager(s) / Stock Exchange(s) 
on www.__________
ISSUE OPENS ON:
ISSUE CLOSES ON:
Issued by
Directors of Issuer
Page 88 of 81

[Page 81]
SCHEDULE VI
[See Regulation 13 and Regulation 51(2)]
REGULATORY FEES
1. 59[In respect of every draft offer document filed in terms of these regulations, a non-refundable fee of
0.00025% of issue size, subject to the minimum of twenty-five thousand rupees and maximum of fifty lakh
rupees, shall be payable to the Board.]
2. The fees as specified in clause (1) above shall be paid by way of direct credit in the bank account through
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by Reserve Bank of India or by means of a demand draft
drawn in favour of ‘the Securities and Exchange Board of India’ payable at the place where the draft offer
document is filed with the Board.
3. In respect of every private placement of non-convertible securities and Commercial Paper which are listed
in terms of these regulations, a non-refundable fee of five thousand rupees shall be paid to the designated
stock exchange at the time of listing of such securities.
4. Every designated stock exchange shall remit the regulatory fee collected during the month under clause (3)
above to the Board before the tenth day of the subsequent month by way of direct credit in the bank
account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by Reserve Bank of India or by means of a
demand draft drawn in favour of ‘the Securities and Exchange Board of India’  payable at Mumbai along
with the details of the securities listed during the month.
Sd/-
AJAY TYAGI
CHAIRMAN
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA
59 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, 
w.e.f. 02-02-2023. Prior to substitution, clause (1) read as: 
“There shall be a fee in respect of every draft offer document filed by a lead manager with the Board in terms of these regulations, a non-
refundable fee of 0.00025% of issue size, subject to the minimum of twenty-five thousand rupees and maximum of fifty lakh rupees.”
Page 89 of 81
