[Page 1]
Page 1 of 291 
 
 
MASTER CIRCULAR 
 
HO/49/14/14(7)2025-CFD-POD2/I/3762/2026 Issued on: July 11, 2023  
       Last updated on: January 30, 2026                                                                                  
 
To 
 
All listed entities1 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All the Depositories 
Other Stakeholders2 
 
Madam / Sir, 
 
Sub:  Master Circular for compliance with the provisions of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 by listed entities  
 
1. For effective regulation of the listed entities and compliance with the requirements specified 
in the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Listing Obligations and D isclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as “ LODR Regulations”) (link), 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, has been issuing circulars from time to time.  
 
2. In order to enable the users to have access to the provisi ons of the applicable circulars  at 
one place, a Master Circular for compliance with the provisions of the LODR Regulations by 
listed entities dated July 11, 2023 was issued by consolidating all relevant circulars issued 
till June 30, 2023. Further, the Master Circular dated July 11, 2023 was updated and issued 
on November 11, 2024 by consolidating all relevant circulars issued till September 30, 2024. 
 
3. The Master Circular dated November 11, 2024  is updated to include all relevant circulars 
that were issued  till December 30, 2025 and changes, wherever considered relevant, are 
carried out in this circular to reflect the provisions which are currently in force.  
 
4. With the issuance of this Master Circular, all directions/instructions contained in the Circulars 
listed out in the Appendix to this Master Circular shall stand rescinded to the extent they 
relate to compliance with the  provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations. 
 
 
 
                                                           
1Unless otherwise specifically mentioned in this circular, the provisions of this master circular are applicable to those entities that 
have listed their specified securities.  
2Other Stakeholders for the purpose of applicability of this master circular includes Statutory Auditors, Depository Participa nts, 
Registrar and Transfer Agents, Material Subsidiaries of listed entities, e -voting service providers, The Associated Chambers o f 
Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Confederation 
of Indian Industry (CII), etc. to whom specific provisions of this Circular are applicable.

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 291 
 
 
5. Notwithstanding such rescission, - 
 
a) anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken under the 
rescinded circulars, prior to such rescission, shall be deemed to have been done or 
taken under the corresponding provisions of this Master Circular; 
 
b) any application made to the Board under the rescinded circulars prior to such rescission, 
and pending before it, sha ll be deemed to have been made under the corresponding 
provisions of this Master Circular; and 
 
c) the previous operation of the rescinded circulars or anything done or suffered 
thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under 
the rescinded circulars, any penalty, incurred in respect of any violation committed 
against the rescinded circulars or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in 
respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty as aforesaid, shall not be 
affected by such rescission and shall be enforceable as if the rescinded circulars had 
continued to be in force . 
 
6. The Recognized Stock Exchanges and Depositories are directed to 
 
a) bring the contents of this circular to the notice of the all the stakeholders; 
b) put in place necessary systems and infrastructure for monitoring and implementation 
of this circular. 
 
7. All listed entities , recognized stock exchanges and depositories, o ther stakeholders shall 
comply with the provisions of this circular to the extent applicable. 
 
8. This Master Circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under sections 11(1)  of 
the Securities and Exc hange Board of India Act, 1992 Securities and Exchange Board of 
India Act, 1992 (link), to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the 
development of, and to regulate, the securities market. 
 
9. This Master Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in in the path 
“Home>Legal>Master Circulars”. 
Yours faithfully,  
 
Raj Kumar Das 
Deputy General Manager  
Corporation Finance Department 
Policy and Development 
Tel. No.: +91-22-26449253 
Email id: rajkd@sebi.gov.in

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 291 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Chapter Section Subject Page No. 
I  UNIFORM LISTING AGREEMENT  
I-A Uniform Listing Agreement 7 
II  PERIODIC DISCLOSURES (NON-FINANCIAL)  
II-A Holding of specified securities and shareholding pattern 8-11 
II-B [***]3 12 
II-C Disclosure norms for Indian Depository Receipts 13 
III  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES  
III-A Disclosure of financial results, statement on impact of audit 
qualifications and the procedure and formats for limited 
review / audit reports submitted by listed entities 
14-18 
III-B Disclosures and other  obligations of listed entities in 
relation to Related Party Transactions 
19-21 
III-C Statement of Deviation or Variation  for  proceeds  of  public 
issue, rights issue, preferential issue, Qualified Institutions 
Placement etc. 
22 
IV  ANNUAL DISCLOSURES  
IV-A Annual secretarial audit report and annual secretarial 
compliance report for listed entities and their material 
subsidiaries 
23 
IV-B Business responsibility and sustainability reporting by 
listed entities 
24-27 
V  EVENT-BASED DISCLOSURES  
V-A Disclosure of material events / information by listed entities 
under regulation 30 and 30A of the LODR Regulations 
28-29 
V-AA Verification of market rumours by listed entities 30 
V-B Disclosures by listed entities of  defaults on payment of 
interest/ repayment of principal amount on loans from 
banks / financial institutions and unlisted debt securities 
31-33 
V-C Disclosure of divergence in the asset classification and 
provisioning by banks 
34 
V-D Resignation of statutory auditors from listed entities and 
their material subsidiaries 
35-37 
VI  OTHER OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE 
REQUIREMENTS 
 
VI-A Manner of achieving minimum public shareholding 38-40 
VI-B Format for submission of voting results 41 
VI-C e-voting facility provided by listed entities 42-43 
VI-D Guidance Note on Board Evaluation by listed entities  44 
VI-E Disclosures regarding commodity risks by listed entities 45 
                                                           
3 Omitted Section II-B- ‘Report on compliance with the Corporate Governance provisions specified in the LODR Regulations’, along 
with Annexures 3 to 6, as same has become part of Integrated Filing (Governance), with issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -
PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular.

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 291 
 
Chapter Section Subject Page No. 
VI-F Standard Operating Procedures for dispute resolution 
available under the stock exchange arbitration mechanism 
for disputes between a listed entity and its 
shareholder(s)/investor(s) 
46 
VI-G Grievance resolution between liste d entities and proxy 
advisors 
47 
VI-H Implementation of certain recommendations of the 
Committee on Corporate Governance headed by Mr. Uday 
Kotak 
48 
VI-I Applicability of regulation 40(1) of LODR Regulations to 
buybacks and delisting of securities of listed entities  
49 
VI-J 4[***] 50 
 5VI-K Clarification on the position of Compliance Officer in terms 
of regulation 6 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
51 
 6VI-L Implementation of recommendations of the Expert 
Committee for facilitating ease of doing business for listed 
entities 
52-55 
VII  PENAL ACTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE  
 VII-A Non-compliance with certain provisions of the LODR 
Regulations and the Standard Operating Procedure for 
suspension and revocation of trading of specified securities 
56-64 
 VII-B Non–compliance with the Minimum Public Shareholding 
requirements 
65-67 
    
  LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 5-6 
  ANNEXURES 68-284 
  APPENDIX 285-291 
 
  
                                                           
4Omitted ‘Section VI -J: Relaxation from compliance with certain provisions of the LODR Regulations ’, pursuant to relaxations 
provided under Regulation 36(1)(b) and Regulation 44(4) vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (link).  
5 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2025/47 dated April 01, 2025 
6 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 291 
 
 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
ADR American Depository Receipt 
AGM Annual General Meeting 
AS Accounting Standards 
BIFR Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction 
Board Securities and Exchange Board of India 
BRR Business Responsibility Report 
BRSR Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting 
CEO Chief Executive Officer 
CFO Chief Financial Officer 
CFS Consolidated Financial Statements 
CIN Corporate Identification Number 
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility  
DIN Director Identification Number 
DR Depository Receipt  
ESG Environmental, Social and Governance 
ESOS Employee Stock Option Scheme 
ESP E-Voting Service Provider  
ETF Exchange Traded Fund 
FCCB Foreign Currency Convertible Bond 
GDR Global Depository Receipt 
GRI Global Reporting Initiative 
ICAI Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
ICDR Regulations SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 
ICSI Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
IDR Indian Depository Receipts 
IGP Innovators Growth Platform 
Ind-AS Indian Accounting Standards 
IRDAI Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
ISIN International Securities Identification Number 
KMP Key Managerial Personnel 
LODR Regulations 
/ SEBI LODR / 
LODR  
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
MPS Minimum Public Shareholding 
NBFC Non-Banking Financial Company 
NCD Non-Convertible Debentures 
NCRPS Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares 
NFRA National Financial Reporting Authority 
NGRBC National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 
NPA Non-Performing Asset 
NRC Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
OFS Offer for Sale

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 291 
 
OTC Over-the-Counter 
PAN Permanent Account Number 
PCS Practising Company Secretary 
QIP Qualified Institutions Placement 
RPT Related Party Transaction 
RTA Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent 
SA Standards on Auditing  
SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
SBO Significant Beneficial Owner 
SCRR Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 
SEBI Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SIA Social Impact Assessment  
SME Small and Medium Enterprises 
SOP Standard Operating Procedure 
SRC Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
SRE Standard on Review Engagements 
TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
UDIN Unique Document Identification Number

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 291 
 
CHAPTER I: UNIFORM LISTING AGREEMENT 
 
Section I-A: Uniform Listing Agreement7 
 
1. The requirement of executing a listing agreement with the Stock Exchange is specified 
under different regulations related to initial issuance of capital, the details of which are 
asunder: 
 
Type of 
Securities 
Regulation Regulation No. 
Specified Securities 
(Equity & Convertible 
Securities on Main Board 
or SME or IGP) or Indian 
Depository Receipts 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018  
Regulations 7(1)(a), 
62(1)(a), 104(1)( a), 
183 ( 3)(a) and 
230(1)(a) read with 
Schedule XIX  
Non-Convertible 
Securities 
Securities and Exchange Board of  India 
(Issue and Listing of Non -Convertible 
Securities) Regulations, 2021  
Regulation 19 
Securitised Debt 
Instruments 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) 
Regulations, 2008 
Regulation 35A 
Mutual Funds Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Mutual Funds)Regulations,1996  
Regulation 31B 
 
2. In order to give effect to the requirements of above -mentioned regulations, a simplified 
listing agreement which is uniform across all types of securities/listed entities is 
prescribed in Annexure 1 to this circular. 
 
3. A listed entity which had pr eviously entered into agreement(s) with a recognized Stock 
Exchange(s) to list its securities was required to execute a fresh listing agreement with 
such Stock Exchange within six months of the date of notification of the LODR 
Regulations. Notwithstanding such novation, any action taken or purported to have been 
done or taken by the Stock Exchanges or SEBI, any enquiry or investigation commenced 
or show -cause notice issued in respect of the erstwhile listing agreement shall be 
deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of the LODR 
Regulations in force.  
 
******** 
 
 
                                                           
7CIR/CFD/CMD/6/2015 dated October 13, 2015. The LODR Regulations was notified on September 2, 2015 and came into effect 
from December 1, 2015, except for regulations 23(4) and 31A which were immediately effective.

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 291 
 
CHAPTER II: PERIODIC DISCLOSURES (NON-FINANCIAL) 
Section II-A: Holding of specified securities and shareholding pattern8 
 
1. Regulation 31 of the LODR Regulations deals with the disclosure of shareholding pattern 
(also referred to as holding of specified securities) and manner of maintaining 
shareholding in dematerialized format. 
 
2. Manner of representation of holding of specified securities 
 
2.1 The holding of specified securities shall be divided into the following 3 categories 
viz. Promoter and Promoter Group, Public and Non-Promoter Non-Public. 
 
2.2 ‘Promoter and Promoter Group’ shall have the same meaning as defined under 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018. The holding of promoter(s) and promoter group 
must be segregated as provided in Table II of Annexure 2 to this circular.  
 
2.3 The details of the shareholding of the promoters and promoter group, public 
shareholders and non-public non-promoter shareholders must be accompanied with 
Permanent Account Number (PAN) (first holder in case of joint holding). Further, the 
shareholding of the promoter and promoter group, public shareholders and non -
public non-promoter shareholders is to be consolidated on the basis of the PAN and 
folio number to avoid multiple disclosures of shareholding of the same person. 
 
2.4 In the disclosure of Public Shareholding: 
 
2.4.1 Names of the shareholders holding 1% or more than 1% of shares of listed 
entity is to be disclosed. 
 
2.4.2 Names of the shareholders who are persons acting in concert, if available, 
shall be disclosed separately. 
 
2.5 Shares against which Depository Receipts have been issued: 
 
2.5.1 As per Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 and Depository Receipts 
Scheme, 2014, the shares of a listed entity underlying the depository receipts 
shall form part of the public shareholding of the company only if the holder of 
such depository receipts has the right to issue voting instruction and such 
depository receipts are listed on an international exchange. 
 
2.5.2 Accordingly, the underlying shares,  against which depository receipts have 
been issued, held by any person belonging to Promoter and Promoter Group, 
shall be disclosed under category ‘Promoter and Promoter Group’. The shares 
                                                           
8CIR/CFD/CMD/13/2015 dated November 30, 2015; SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/128 dated December 19, 2017; 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2018/0000000149 dated December 7, 2018; SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2019/36 dated March 12, 
2019; SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2021/616 dated August 13, 2021 and SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-1/P/CIR/2022/92 dated June 30, 2022.

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 291 
 
which are held by persons other than Promoter and Promoter Group a nd 
satisfying the above conditions would be classified under the category ‘Public 
Shareholding’. 
 
2.5.3 The underlying shares, against which depository receipts have been issued, 
of a listed entity not satisfying the conditions at para graph2.5.1 above which 
are held by Public Shareholders shall be classified under the category ‘Non-
Public Non-Promoter shareholding’. 
 
2.6 The listed entity shall ensure that shareholding of employee trusts and schemes are 
shown separately in relevant categories in terms of Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021. 
 
3. Manner of calculation of shareholding 
 
3.1 The categories as defined at paragraph 2.1 above: 
 
a) Promoter and Promoter Group (A) 
b) Public (including shares underlying DRs which fulfil the conditions laid down in 
Rule 2(e) of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957) (B) 
c) Non-Promoter Non-Public (C) 
i. Shares held by DR Holders (which don’t fulfil the conditions laid down 
in Rule 2(e) of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957) (C1) 
ii. Shares held by Employee Benefit Trust under Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021 (C2) 
 
3.2 Total Shareholding for the purpose of calculating the public shareholding shall be 
calculated as (A+B+C2) in line with requirements of Depository Receipts Scheme, 
2014, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 and Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Sha re Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021. 
 
3.3 Percentage of promoter Shareholding shall be calculated as A/(A+B+C2) * 100. 
 
3.4 Percentage of public Shareholding shall be calculated as B/(A+B+C2) * 100. 
 
4. Formats: The format9 for disclosure of shareholding pattern of a listed entity is placed at 
Annexure2. The format contains six separate disclosures, the details of which are given 
below: 
 
4.1 Summary statement showing holding of specified securities of the listed entity as 
per Table-I. 
                                                           
9The initial circular dated November 30, 2015 contained Tables I, II, III and IV which were effective from December 1, 2015. Table V 
was made effective from the quarter ended June 30, 2019. Table VI was made effective from the quarter ended September 30, 2022. 
Table II was modified vide circular dated August 13, 2021. Table III and IV were modified vide circular dated June 30, 2022 and the 
revised Table III and IV were effective from the quarter ended September 30, 2022.

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 291 
 
4.2 Statement showing holding of specified securities by the Promoter and Promoter  
Group as per Table-II. 
4.3 Statement showing holding of specified securities by the public shareholders as per 
Table-III. 
4.4 Statement showing holding of specified securities by the Non-Promoter Non-Public 
shareholders as per Table-IV. 
4.5 Statement showing details of significant beneficial owners  as per Table V  (see 
paragraph 5 below). 
4.6 Statement showing foreign ownership limits  as per Table VI  (see para graph 6 
below). 
 
5. The details pertaining to significant beneficial owners shall be displayed in the format 
specified in Table V of Annexure 2 by listed entities that are reporting companies as per 
Companies (Significant Beneficial Owners) Rules, 2018, as amended from time to time. 
The terms used in this paragraph and in Table V shall have the same meaning as 
assigned in Companies (Significant Beneficial Owners) Rules, 2018, as amended from 
time to time.  
 
6. All listed entities shall also 10[ensure disclosure of] details pertaining to foreign ownership 
limits indicating the board approved limits and utilization in the format prescribed in Table 
VI of Annexure 2 to this circular. 
 
11[6A. Based on the requests received from Depositories, Stock Exchanges and in the interest 
of providing further clarity & transparency in the disclosure of shareholding pattern to the 
investors in the securities market, the Annexure 2 of section II -A of chapter II to the 
Circular is being partially modified as under: 
 
a. Table I-IV of the shareholding pattern has been amended as under: 
i. details of Non-Disposal Undertaking (‘NDU’), Other encumbrances, if any 
and total number of shares pledged or otherwise encumbered including 
NDU shall be disclosed by the listed entities. 
 
ii. It is clari fied that underlying outstanding convertible securities also 
includes ESOPs i.e. the existing header of column X as “No. of Shares 
Underlying Outstanding convertible securities (including Warrants, ESOP 
etc.) 
 
iii. adding one additional column in the existing s hareholding pattern format 
to capture the  details of total number of shares on fully diluted basis 
(including warrants, ESOP, Convertible Securities etc.) 
 
                                                           
10 Substituted for “disclose” to take into account system driven disclosure of shareholding pattern, pursuant to issuance of Circular 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular. 
11 Inserted with the issuance of Circular bearing number  SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/35 dated March 20, 2025 , came 
into force with effect from the quarter ending June 30, 2025

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 291 
 
b. Table II of the shareholding pattern has been amended as under: 
i. 12[All listed companies shall mandatorily include the details of Promoter 
and promoter group with “NIL” Shareholding in the table II of the Format 
of disclosure of shareholding pattern of a listed entity.] 
 
7. Holding of specified securities in dematerialized form: 
7.1 Regulation 31(2) of  the LODR Regulations mandates the listed entities to ensure 
that 100% of shareholding of promoter(s) and promoter group is in dematerialized 
form and the same is maintained on a continuous basis in the manner specified by 
the Board. The listed entity shall ta ke into consideration the following exemptions 
while arriving at compliance with 100% promoter(s) holding in dematerialized form:- 
a) promoter(s) shares which were sold in physical mode and have not 
been lodged for transfer with the listed entity; 
b) matters tha t are sub -judice before any Court/Tribunal, concerning 
shareholding of promoters/promoter group either in part or in entirety; 
or 
c) shares that cannot be converted into dematerialized form due to 
death of any promoter(s); 
 
7.2 For availing the exemption under paragraph 7.1(a) to (c)above, the listed entity shall 
approach Stock Exchange(s) along with necessary documentary evidence. 
7.3 In case any such exemption has been granted to the listed entity the same must be 
stated in summary statement and given separately and information should be given 
separately in the Annexure. 
7.4 Further, at least 50% of non-promoter holding shall be held in dematerialized form. 
The listed entity shall take necessary steps for achieving the same. 
7.5 While computing the requirement of minimum 50%  shareholding of non-promoters 
in dematerialized form in a company, the government holding in non -promoter 
category may be excluded. 
 
8. Display of holding of specified securities on website of Stock Exchange(s) 
8.1 If the listed entity confirms that any particular instrument is not issued or there are 
no encumbered/ pledged shares and locked-in shares, respective columns will not 
be displayed by the Stock Exchange(s) on their website. The declaration given by 
the listed entity in this regard would be displayed by Stock Exchange(s). 
8.2 The Stock Exchange(s) shall also ensure that PAN numbers so disclosed in different 
tables are not displayed on the website of Stock Exchange(s). 
8.3 The Depositories shall provide the shareholding data to listed entities 13[and/or Stock 
Exchanges] in the requisite categorization as specified in this Section. 
 
9. Listed entities shall 14[ensure disclosure of] shareholding pattern in the formats specified 
above for the purpose of compliance with regulation 31(1) of the LODR Regulations.  
                                                           
12 Substituted for “A footnote has been added to the table II that provides the details of promoter and promoter group with 
shareholding “NIL” for clarification.  
13 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is 
incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular. 
14 Substituted for “disclose the” to take into account system driven disclosure of shareholding pattern, pursuant to issuance of Circular 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular.

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 291 
 
 
 
Section II-B: [***]15 
 
1. [deleted]  
 
2. [deleted]  
 
3. [deleted]  
 
4. [deleted]  
  
                                                           
15 Omitted Section II-B Report on compliance with the Corporate Governance provisions specified in the LODR Regulations, along 
with Annexures 3 , 4, 5 and 6, as same has become part of Integrated Filing (Governance), with issuance of Circular 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular. Prior to 
omission Para 1 to 4 of Section II-B read as under: 
 
“Report on compliance with the Corporate Governance provisions specified in the LODR Regulations  
1. The applicability of the corporate governance provisions of the LODR Regulations i.e., regulations 17 to 27 and certain 
provisions of regulation 46 and Schedule V, is specified in regulation 15(2) of the LODR Regulations.  
 
2. In terms of regulation 27(2) of LODR Regulations, the listed entity is required to submit a quarterly compliance report on 
corporate governance in the format specified by the Board from time to time, to recognised Stock Exchange(s). 
 
3. Accordingly, the submission of compliance report on Corporate Governance shall be as under: 
 
a) Annexure 3– on quarterly basis 
b) Annexure  4 – at the end of the financial year 
c) Annexure 5– at the end of 6 months from the close of financial year 
d) Annexure 6– on a half yearly basis. 
 
4. Listed entities shall submit the compliance report on corporate governance as per the formats specified above. In case of 
non-applicability of the corporate governance provisions, the listed entity shall submit a declaration to that effect, duly 
signed by the compliance officer or the chief executive officer accompanied by a certificate from a PCA or a PCS, to the 
Stock Exchange(s), at the beginning of every financial year. “

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 291 
 
 
Section II-C: Disclosure norms for Indian Depository Receipts16 
 
1. In terms of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 69 of the LODR Regulations, listed entities 
shall file with the stock exchange the Indian Depository Receipt (IDR) holding pattern on 
a quarterly basis within fifteen days of end of the quarter in the format specified by SEBI. 
Accordingly, every listed entity that has issued IDRs shall file the holding pattern with the 
stock exchanges as per Annexure 7. 
 
2. Further, sub-regulation (1) of regulation 72 of the LODR Regulations requires the listed 
entity to comply with the corporate governance provisions as applicable in its home 
country and other jurisdictions in which its equity shares are listed and sub-regulation (2) 
of regulation 72 requires such a listed entity to submit to the stock exchange, a 
comparative analysis of the corporate governance provisions that are applicable i n its 
home country and in the other jurisdictions in which its equity shares are listed along with 
the compliance of the same vis-à-vis the corporate governance requirements applicable 
under regulation 17 to regulation 27, to other listed entities. 
 
3. To give effect to sub-regulation (2) of regulation 72, listed entities shall be guided by the 
formats specified in 17[Annexures 25] of this circular. The listed entity shall include an 
additional column confirming whether the requirement in the row item, originating from 
the LODR Regulations, is applicable in its home country and other jurisdictions in which 
its equity shares are listed. Such reports shall follow the periodicity applicable in its home 
country and other jurisdictions in which its equity shares are listed. 
 
4. The information furnished by the listed entity to the stock exchanges in terms of sub - 
regulation (1) of regulation 69 and s ub-regulation (2) of regulation 72 shall also be 
disclosed on the website of the such listed entity. 
 
5. Further, sub-regulation (3) of regulation 76 of the LODR Regulations specifies that IDRs 
shall have two -way fungibility in the manner specified by the Boa rd from time to time. 
Accordingly, the listed entity shall be guided by the procedure for partial two -way 
fungibility within the available headroom as per Annexure 8 to this circular. 
 
****** 
  
                                                           
16CIR/CFD/CMD/9/2015 dated November 4, 2015, effective from December 1, 2015. 
17 Substituted for “ Annexures 3-6” with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 
2024, incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular.

[Page 14]
Page 14 of 291 
 
 
CHAPTER III: FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES 
Section III -A: Disclosure of financial results, statement on impact of audit 
qualifications and the procedure and format s for limited review / audit reports 
submitted by listed entities 
 
1. In order to enable investors to make well-informed investment decisions, timely adequate 
and accurate disclosure of financial results on a periodical basis is critical. Towards this 
end, regulation 33 of the LODR Regulations has specified various requirements with 
respect to submission of financial results viz., quarterly / annual financial results (audited 
/ unaudited), limited review of unaudited financial results, disclosure of impact of audit 
qualifications etc. This Section deals with the procedure and / or formats for the aforesaid 
requirements. The requirements specified in this Section shall apply to the listed banking 
and insurance companies with e xceptions / modifications as provided in the relevant 
paragraphs.  
 
(A) Formats for submission of financial results18:  
 
2. To ensure comparability between financial results, uniformity and parity in disclosures 
made by listed entities across stock exchanges is essential. Regulation 33(4) of the 
LODR Regulations states that the formats of financial results shall be in the manne r as 
specified by the Board.  
 
3. Therefore, listed entities shall follow the formats specified in Integrated Filing (Financial) 
Annexure-25 of this Circular.19 
 
4. The statement of cash flows shall be in terms of the relevant accounting standard i.e., 
Accounting Standard 3 or Indian Accounting Standard 7, as applicable. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
18CIR/CFD/CMD/15/2015 dated November 30, 2015; CIR/CFD/FAC/62/2016 dated July 5, 2016; CIR/CFD/DIL/115/2016 dated 
October 24, 2016. 
 
The circular dated November 30, 2015 had prescribed the formats for submission of financial results which were discontinued after 
the period ended December 31, 2016 (circular dated July 5, 2016). From the quarter / half-year / year ended March 31, 2017, the 
formats were linked to the Companies Act, 2013 or as prescribed by the sectoral regulators. The format for publication of fin ancial 
results in the newspaper was modified by the July 5, 2016 circular.  The October 24, 2016 circular dealt with disclosures by listed 
insurance companies.  
 
19Substituted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is 
incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular. Prior to substitution, Para 3 read as under: 
 
“3. Therefore, the formats for unaudited / audited quarterly financial results i.e., Statement of Profit and Loss and the unaudit ed / 
audited half-yearly balance sheet to be submitted by listed entities shall be  as per the formats for balance sheet and statement of 
profit and loss (excluding notes and detailed sub -classification) as prescribed in Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, as 
amended from time to time. Listed banking and insurance companies shall fo llow the formats as prescribed under the respective 
Acts / Regulations and / or as specified by the sectoral regulators.”

[Page 15]
Page 15 of 291 
 
 
 
 
5. While publishing the quarterly financial results, listed entities shall also publish the figures 
relating to the periods as mentioned below: 
Particulars 3 months 
ended 
(dd/mm/yyyy) 
Preceding 3 
months 
ended 
(dd/mm/yyyy) 
Corresponding 
3 months 
ended in the 
previous year 
(dd/mm/yyyy) 
Year to date 
figures for the 
current period 
ended 
(dd/mm/yyyy) 
Year to date 
for the 
previous year 
ended 
(dd/mm/yyyy) 
Previous year 
ended 
(dd/mm/yyyy) 
 (Audited / 
Unaudited) 
(Audited / 
Unaudited) 
(Audited / 
Unaudited) 
(Audited / 
Unaudited) 
(Audited / 
Unaudited) 
(Audited) 
       
 
However, the annual audited financial results may not include columns and figures 
related to the previous quarter, year to date results and corresponding three months in 
the previous year.  
 
6. The quarterly / annual segment information published in complianc e with the 
requirements as specified under Accounting Standard 17 / Indian Accounting Standard 
108 shall contain the following minimum information: 
 
a) Segment revenue (including inter-segment revenue); 
b) Segment results; 
c) Segment Assets; 
d) Segment Liabilities.  
Unallocated items, wherever applicable, shall be shown separately in respect of the 
above information. Aggregate inter-segment revenue shall be shown as a deduction 
from the segment revenue.  
7. The applicable Accounting Standards for the financial results are those standards 
mandated under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the relevant rules 
issued thereunder / issued by ICAI, as applicable. The classification / disclosure of items 
in the financial results shall be in accordance with the Schedule III of the Companies Act, 
2013 or its equivalent formats in other statutes, as applicable.  
 
8. The financial results published in the newspapers in terms of regulation 47(1)20[***] of the 
LODR Regulations shall be in the format as specified in Annexure 9 to this circular. The 
banking and insurance companies may include additional disclosures, if any, specified 
by the sectoral regulators.  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
20Omitted “(b)” pursuant to the amendments to Regulation 47 of the LODR Regulations vide Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (link).

[Page 16]
Page 16 of 291 
 
(B) Disclosure of reasons for delay in submission of financial results21 
 
9. In terms of regulation 33(3) of the LODR Regulations, the quarterly (audited / unaudited) 
and the annual (audited) financial results have to be submitted within a period of 45 days 
and 60 days, respectively, from the end of the quarter / financial year.  
 
10. As mentioned above, timely, adequate and accurate disclosure of financial results is 
critical to enable investors to make well -informed investment decisions. Though stock 
exchange(s) levy penalty on listed entities for non -submission of financial results within 
the stipulated time, investors need to know the reasons for such delay as it may have an 
impact on their investment decision.  
 
11. Therefore, if a listed entity does not submit its financial results in accordance with the 
timelines specified in regulation 33(3) of the LODR, the listed entity shall disclose detailed 
reasons for such delay to the stock exchanges within one working day of the due date of 
submission for the results as required under the regulations. However, if the decision to 
delay the results was taken by the listed entity prior to the due date, the listed entity shall 
disclose detailed reasons for such delay to the stock exchanges within one working day 
of such decision.  
 
(C) Procedure and formats for limited review / audit report of the listed entity and 
those entities whose accounts22 
 
12. In terms of regulation 33(8) of the LODR Regulations, the statutory auditor of a li sted 
entity shall undertake a limited review of the audit of all the entities / companies whose 
accounts are to be consolidated with the listed entity as per the relevant account ing 
standard(AS21 / Ind-AS 110) in accordance with guidelines issued by the Board on this 
matter.  
 
13. Therefore, all listed entities whose equity shares and convertible securities are listed on a 
recognised stock exchange, all statutory auditors of such entities, all entities whose accounts 
are to be consolidated with the listed entity and the statutory auditors of entities whose 
accounts are to be consolidated with the listed entity (referred to as 'parties to the limited 
review' for easy reference in the Annexure 10) shall follow the procedure, as applicable, given 
at Annexure 10 to this circular. 
 
14. The formats for limited review / audit report to be provided by the statutory auditor is 
given at Annexure 11. A summary of the formats, as per applicability, is placed below 
for easy reference. 
                                                           
21CIR/CFD/CMD-1/142/2018 dated November 19, 2018 
22CIR/CFD/CMD1/44/2019 dated March 29, 2019 and CIR/CFD/CMD1/ 80 /2019 dated July 19, 2019 . 
 
The formats for limited review and audit reports were prescribed vide the circular CIR/CFD/CMD/15/2015 
dated November 30, 2015 and revised vide circular dated March 29, 2019 (effective April 1, 2019) after 
implementation of the Kotak Committee recommendations. The formats were further revised vide circular 
dated July 19, 2019 (except C3 and B3) due t o revision in the Standards on Auditing and the revised 
formats were effective for the financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 and thereafter.

[Page 17]
Page 17 of 291 
 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Format No. Audited/ 
Unaudited 
Periodicity Standalone/ 
Consolidated 
results 
Brief description of 
the formats For listed 
entities other 
than banks 
and 
insurance 
companies 
(C formats) 
For 
Banks 
(B 
formats) 
1.  C1 B1 Unaudited Quarterly Standalone Format for the 
Limited Review 
Report on quarterly 
and year to date 
results 
2.  C2 B2 Audited Quarterly Standalone When an Unmodified 
Opinion is expressed 
on the Quarterly and 
year to date financial 
results 
3.  C3 B3 Unaudited Quarterly Consolidated Independent 
Auditor’s Review 
Report on Review of 
Consolidated 
Unaudited Quarterly 
and Year to date 
Financial Results. 
4.  C4 B4 Audited Quarterly Consolidated When an Unmodified 
Opinion is expressed 
on consolidated 
audited quarterly and 
year to date financial 
results 
5.  C5 B5 Audited Annual 
 
Consolidated When an Unmodified 
Opinion is expressed 
on consolidated 
audited annual 
financial results 
 
15. The listed insurance companies shall follow formats as prescribed by IRDAI.  
 
16. The aforesaid provisions shall be in addition to and not affect the norms and procedures 
with respect to limited review specified under regulation 33(3)(c) of the LODR 
Regulations.

[Page 18]
Page 18 of 291 
 
(D) Disclosure of the Impact of Audit Qualifications by listed entities23: 
 
17. In terms of regulation 33(3 )(d) and Schedule IV of the LODR Regulations, audit report 
with modified opinion shall be accompanied by a Statement on Impact of Audit 
qualifications. Further, in term s of regulation 33(4), the Statement on Impact of Audit 
Qualifications for audit report with modified opinion shall be in the manner as specified 
by the Board.  
 
18. Therefore, every listed entity shall submit the Statement on Impact of Audit 
Qualifications, for audit report with modified opinion, in the format specified 24[in 
Integrated Filing (Financial) Annexure-25] to this circular. The management of the listed 
entity shall have the option to explain its views on the audit qualifications. The recognized 
stock exchange(s) shall review the aforesaid statement in terms of regulation 95 of the 
LODR Regulations  and monitor it as part of its regular monitoring as specified in 
regulation 97 of the LODR Regulations.  
 
19. For audit reports with unmodified opinion, the listed entity shall furnish a declaration to 
that effect to the stock exchange(s) while submitting the audited financial results.  
 
***** 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
23CIR/CFD/CMD/56/2016 dated May 27, 2016.  
The format prescribed in circular CIR/CFD/CMD/15/201 5 dated November 30, 2015 was revised vide the circular dated May 27, 
2016 and was made applicable for the financial results submitted for the period ended on or after March 31, 2016.  
24 Substituted for “ at Annexure 12 ”, pursuant to the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated 
December 31, 2024, which is incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular. Accordingly, Annexure 12 is also omitted from this 
Master Circular.

[Page 19]
Page 19 of 291 
 
Section III-B:Disclosure and other obligations of listed entities in relation to 
Related Party Transactions25 
 
1. Regulation 23(9) of the LODR Regulations inter-alia requires listed entities to disclose 
Related Party Transactions (RPTs), on a half -yearly basis, in the format specified by 
the Board and within the timelines specified in the regulations. Accordingly, listed 
entities shall make RPT disclosures in the  format specified in 26[Integrated Filing 
(Financial) Annexure-25] to this circular.  
 
2. Regulation 23(2), (3) and (4) of SEBI   (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements)  Regulations, 2015  (“LODR  Regulations”)  require  related  party 
transactions  (“RPTs”)  to  be  approved  by  the  audit committee  and  by  the 
shareholders, if material.  
 
3. Further, it has been decide d to specify the information to be placed before the audit 
committee and the shareholders for consideration of RPTs. The same is detailed in the 
following paragraphs. 
27[3A.  Industry Standards Forum (“ISF”) comprising of representatives from three industry  
associations, viz. ASSOCHAM, CII and FICCI, under the aegis of the Stock Exchanges, 
in consultation with SEBI formulated Industry Standards on “Minimum information to be 
provided to the Audit Committee and Shareholders for approval of related party 
transactions” (“RPT Industry Standards”). ASSOCHAM, FICCI, CII and the stock 
exchanges shall publish the RPT Industry Standards on their websi tes. The listed 
entities, shall follow the aforesaid RPT Industry Standards to ensure compliance with 
Regulation 23(2), (3) and (4) of LODR Regulations.] 28[Further, it has been decided to 
relax minimum information  to  be  provided  to  the  Audit Committee and shareholders 
for the approval of RPTs. The same is detailed as under.] 
(A) Information to be reviewed by the Audit Committee for approval of RPTs 
 
4. 29[The listed entity shall provide the audit committee with the information as specified 
in the Industry Standards on “Minimum information to be provided to the Audit 
                                                           
25SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2021/662 dated November 22, 2021 (effective from April 1, 2022; the submission from the half year 
ended March 31, 2022 or thereafter was in the new format); SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2022/40 dated March 30, 2022 and 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2022/47 dated April 8, 2022. 
26 Substituted for “Annexure 13”, pursuant to the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 
31, 2024, which is incorporated in Section VI -L of this Master Circular. Accordingly, Annexure 13 is also omitted from this Master 
Circular. 
27Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/93 dated June 26, 2025 (effective from September 
01, 2025) which supersedes the Circular no.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/18 dated February 14, 2025 and Circular no. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/37 dated March 21, 2025 
28 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/135 dated October 13, 2025 
29 Substituted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/93 dated June 26, 2025 and SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/135 dated October 13, 2025. Prior to substitution Para 4 read as under: 
“4. The listed entity shall provide the following information, for review of the audit committee for approval of a proposed RPT: 
a. Type, material terms and particulars of the proposed transaction; 
b. Name of the related party and its relationship with the listed entity or its subsidiary, including nature of its concern 
or interest (financial or otherwise); 
c. Tenure of the proposed transaction (particular tenure shall be specified); 
d. Value of the proposed transaction;

[Page 20]
Page 20 of 291 
 
Committee and Shareholders for approval of Related Party Transactions”, while placing 
any proposal for review and approval of an RPT. 
Provided that if a transaction with a related party, whether individually or taken together 
with previous transaction(s) during a financial year (including transaction(s) which are 
approved by way of ratification), do not exceed 1% of annual consolidated turnover of 
the listed entity as per the last audited financial statements of the listed entity or Rupees 
Ten Crore, whichever is lower, the listed entity shall provide ‘Minimum information to 
the Audit Committee for approval of Related Party Transactions ’ specified in      
Annexure 13A of this circular.  
 
Provided further that the above requirements, shall not be applicable to transaction(s) 
with a related party to be entered into individually or taken together with previous 
transactions during a financial year (including which are approved by way of ratification) 
which does not exceed Rs. One Crore.] 
 
5. The audit committee shall also review the status of long-term (more than one year) or 
recurring RPTs on an annual basis. Further, an RPT for which the audit committee has 
granted omnibus approval shall continue to be  placed before the shareholders if it is 
material in terms of regulation 23(1) of the LODR Regulations. 
 
(B) Information to be provided to shareholders for consideration of RPTs 
 
6. 30[The notice being sent to the shareholders seeking approval for any RPT shall, in 
addition to the requirements under the Companies Act, 2013, include the information 
                                                           
e. The percentage of the listed entity’s annual consolidated turnover, for the immediately preceding financial year, that is 
represented by the value of the proposed transaction (and for a RPT involving a subsidiary, such percentage calculated 
on the basis of the subsidiary’s annual turnover on a standalone basis shall be additionally provided); 
f. If the transaction relates to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given by the listed 
entity or its subsidiary: 
i. details of the source of funds in connection with the proposed transaction; 
ii. where any financial indebtedness is incurred to make or give loans, interope rate deposits, advances or 
investments, 
 nature of indebtedness; 
 cost of funds; and 
 tenure; 
iii. applicable terms, including covenants, tenure, interest rate and repayment schedule, whether secured or 
unsecured; if secured, the nature of security; and 
iv. the purpose for which the funds will be utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of such funds pursuant to the RPT. 
g. Justification as to why the RPT is in the interest of the listed entity; 
h. A copy of the valuation or other external party report, if any such report has been relied upon; 
i. Percentage of the counter-party’s annual consolidated turnover that is represented by the value of the proposed RPT 
on a voluntary basis; 
j. Any other information that may be relevant.” 
30 Substituted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/93 dated June 26, 2025 and SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-
2/P/CIR/2025/135 dated October 13, 2025. Prior to its substitution Para 6 read as under: 
 
“6. The notice being sent to the shareholders seeking approval for any proposed RPT shall, in addition to the requirements under 
the Companies Act, 2013, include the following information as a part of the explanatory statement:  
a. A summary of the information provided by the management of the listed entity to the audit committee as specified in 
paragraph 4 of this Section;  
b. Justification for why the proposed transaction is in the interest of the listed entity;  
c. Where the transaction relates to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given by the listed entity 
or its subsidiary, the details specified under para 4(f) above; (The requirement of disclosing source of funds and cost of funds shall 
not be applicable to listed banks/NBFCs.)

[Page 21]
Page 21 of 291 
 
as part of the explanatory statement as specified in the Industry Standards on 
“Minimum information t o be provided to the Audit Committee and Shareholders for 
approval of Related Party Transactions. 
 
Provided that if a transaction with a related party, whether individually or taken together 
with previous transaction(s) during a financial year (including transaction(s) which are 
approved by way of ratification), do not exceed 1% of annual consolidated t urnover of 
the listed entity as per the last audited financial statements of the listed entity or Rupees 
Ten Crore, whichever is lower, the listed entity shall provide ‘Minimum information to 
the Shareholders for approval of Related Party Transactions ’ spe cified in                       
Annexure 13A of this Circular. 
 
Provided further that the above requirements, shall not be applicable to transaction(s) 
with a related party to be entered into individually or taken together with previous 
transactions during a financial year (including which are approved by way of ratification) 
which does not exceed Rs. One Crore.] 
 
7. The explanatory statement contained in the notice sent to the shareholders for seeking 
approval for an RPT shall provide relevant information so as to enable the shareholders 
to take a view whether the terms and conditions of the proposed RPT are not 
unfavourable to the listed entity, compared to the terms and conditions, had similar 
transaction been entered into between two unrelated parties. The information so 
provided shall include but not be limited to the information specified above. 
 
8. Transparency, accountability and shareholder empowerment are the bedrock of robust 
corporate governance, therefore listed entities shall ensure compliance with the spirit 
of the law and endeavour to provide relevant and detailed information to the 
shareholders in order to enable and empower the latter for taking an informed decision. 
 
(C) [***]31 
 
                                                           
d. A statement that the valuation or other external report, if any, relied upon by the listed entity in relation to the proposed transaction 
will be made available through the registered email address of the shareholders;  
e. Percentage of the counter -party’s annual consolidated turnover that is represented by the value of the proposed RPT, on a 
voluntary basis;  
f. Any other information that may be relevant.” 
31 The relevant provisions are suitably incorporated in Regulation 23(4) of th e LODR, pursuant to Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 (link). Prior to omission Para (C) read as under:  
“(C) Validity of omnibus approval for RPTs granted by shareholders 
1. Regulation 23(3)(e) of the LODR Regulations specifies that omnibus approval granted by the audit committee shall be valid for a period 
not exceeding one year and shall require fresh approvals after expiry of one year. Regulation 23(4) of the LODR Regulations requires 
shareholder approval for material RPTs. 
2. Section 96(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 specifies that the time gap between two Annual General Meetings (AGMs) cannot be more 
than fifteen months. 
3. In order to facilitate listed entities to align their processes to conduct AGMs and obtain omnibus shareholders’ approval for  material 
RPTs, it has been decided to specify that the shareholders’ approval of omnibus RPTs approved in an AGM shall be valid up to 
the date of the next AGM for a period not exceeding fifteen months. In case of omnibus approvals for material RPTs, obtained 
from shareholders in general meetings other than AGMs, the validity of such omnibus approvals shall not exceed one year.”

[Page 22]
Page 22 of 291 
 
Section III-C: Statement of Deviation or Variation for proceeds of public issue, 
rights issue, preferential issue, Qualified Institutions Placement etc.32 
 
1. As per regulations 32(1), 32(2) and 32(3) of the LODR Regulations, a listed entity is, 
inter alia, required to submit to the stock exchange, a statement of deviation or 
variation, pursuant to review by the audit committee, on a quarterly basis for public 
issue, rights issue, preferential issue etc. indicating, 
 
a. deviations, if any, in the use of proceeds of public issue, rights issue, 
preferential issue etc. and 
b. the category wise variation between projected utilisation of funds and the 
actual utilisation of funds. 
Such statement of deviation or variation is to be submitted till the issue proceeds have 
been fully utilised or the purpose for which these proceeds were raised has been 
achieved. 
 
2. A common format  for such reporting  will aid the monitoring of the end use of issue 
proceeds raised by listed entities through public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, 
QIP etc. by Stock Exchanges. Hence, for the purpose of compliance with regulations 
32(1), 32(2) and 32(3) of the LODR Regulations, listed entities shall follow the format 
specified 33[in Integrated Filing (Financial) Annexure-25] to this circular]. 
 
3. The salient features of the format are as under: 
3.1. Applicability: The format shall be applicable for funds raised by listed entities 
through public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, QIPs etc.  
  
3.2. Frequency of Disclosure: The disclosure to the Stock Exchange(s) shall be made 
by listed entities on quarterly basis 34[as part of the Integrated Filing (Financial) as 
specified in Annexure-25 to this circular] until such funds are fully utilised or the 
purpose for which these proceeds were raised has been achieved. 
 
3.3. Role of the Audit Committee : The statement of deviation report shall be pl aced 
before audit committee of the listed entity for review on quarterly basis and after 
such review, the comments of audit committee along with the report shall be 
disclosed/submitted to the stock exchange, as part of the format. 
In cases where the listed  entity is not required to have an audit committee under 
the provisions of LODR Regulations or  the Companies Act, 2013, the word ‘ Audit 
Committee’ shall be replaced with ‘Board of Directors’. 
4. 35[***]  
 
                                                           
32CIR/CFD/CMD1/162/2019 dated December 24, 2019. The submissions began from the quarter ended December 31, 2019. 
33 Substituted for “at Annexure 14”, pursuant to the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 
2024, which is incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular. Accordingly, Annexure 14 is also omitted from this Master Circular. 
34 Substituted for “along with the declaration of financial results (within 45 days of end of each quarter / 60 days from the end of the last 
quarter of the financial year)” pursuant to the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, 
which is incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular. 
35 Omitted pursuant to issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is incorporated in 
Section VI-L of this Master Circular. Prior to omission Para 4 read as under: 
“4. A NIL report shall be submitted by listed entities that do not have any deviation or variation in the funds raised.”

[Page 23]
Page 23 of 291 
 
 
CHAPTER IV: ANNUAL DISCLOSURES 
Section IV-A: Annual secretarial audit report and annual secretarial compliance 
report for listed entities and their material subsidiaries36 
 
1. Regulation 24A(1) of the LODR Regulations requires every listed entity and its material 
unlisted subsidiaries incorporated in India to u ndertake a secretarial audit on a yearly 
basis. The secretarial audit report given by a company secretary in practice, in such 
form as specified, shall be annexed with the annual report of the listed entity.  
 
2. Further, regulation 24A(2) of the  LODR  Regulations requires every listed entity to 
submit a secretarial compliance report in such form as specified, to stock exchanges, 
within sixty days from end of each financial year.  
 
3. Accordingly, the following shall be complied with by a listed entity and its ma terial 
unlisted subsidiaries, as applicable: 
 
3.1 Annual secretarial audit report: 
 
3.1.1 Currently, Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with rule 9 of the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014, as amended from time to time, requires Secretarial Audit by Practicing 
Company Secretaries (PCS) for listed companies and certain unlisted companies 
above a certain threshold in Form No. MR-3. 
 
3.1.2 In order to avoid duplication, the listed entity and its unlisted material subsidiaries 
shall continue to use the same Form No. MR-3 as required under Companies Act, 
2013 and the rules made thereunder for the purpose of compliance with 
Regulation 24A(1) of the LODR Regulations. 
 
3.2 Annual secretarial compliance report: 
 
3.2.1 While the annual secretarial audit shall cover a broad check on compliance with 
all laws applicable to the entity, listed entities shall additionally, on an annual basis, 
require a check by the PCS on compliance of all applicable SEBI Regulations and 
circulars/ guidelines issued  thereunder, consequent to which, the PCS shall 
submit a report to the listed entity in the manner specified in this Section. The 
format for the annual secretarial compliance report is specified at Annexure15 of 
this circular. 
 
4. The listed entities and their material subsidiaries shall provide all such 
documents/information as may be sought by the PCS for the purpose of providing a 
certification under the regulations and this Section. 
 
5. The PCS shall be guided by the instructions issued by the Board from time to time and 
the guidance issued by ICSI in this regard and undertake certifications in accordance 
with the regulations and this circular in letter and in spirit. 
 
 
                                                           
36CIR/CFD/CMD1/27/2019 dated February 8, 2019, effective from the financial year ended March 31, 2019.

[Page 24]
Page 24 of 291 
 
Section IV-B: Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting by listed entities 
 
1. BRSR37 
 
1.1 In recent times, adapting to and mitigating climate change impact, inclusive growth 
and transitioning to a sustainable economy have emerged as major issues globally. 
There is an increased focus of investors and other stakehol ders seeking businesses 
to be responsible and sustainable towards the environment and society. Thus, 
reporting of company’s performance on sustainability related factors has become as 
vital as reporting on financial and operational performance. 
 
1.2 From the financial year 2022-23, in terms of the proviso to regulation 34 (2) (f) of the 
LODR Regulations, top 1000 listed entities based on market capitalization ha d to 
submit a Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) in the format as 
specified by the Board. Further, other listed entities can voluntarily submit such 
reports.  
 
1.3 The BRSR seeks disclosures from listed entities on their performance against the nine 
principles of the ‘National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct’ (NGR BCs) 
and reporting under each principle is divided into essential and leadership indicators. 
The essential indicators are required to be reported on a mandatory basis wh ile the 
reporting of leadership indicators is on a voluntary basis. Listed entities should 
endeavour to report the leadership indictors also. 
 
1.4 The BRSR is intended towards having quantitative and standardized disclosures on 
ESG parameters to enable comparability across companies, sectors and time. Such 
disclosures will be helpful for investors to make better investment decisions. The 
BRSR shall also enable companies to engage more meaningfully with their 
stakeholders, by encouraging them to look beyond financials and towards social and 
environmental impacts.  
 
1.5 The listed entities already preparing and disclosing sustainability reports based on 
internationally accepted reporting frameworks (such as GRI, SASB, TCFD or 
Integrated Reporting) may cross -reference the disclosures made under such 
framework to the disclosures sought under the BRSR. 
 
1.6 The format of the BRSR is as specified in Annexure 1638. The BRSR is accompanied 
with a guidance note to enable the companies to interpret the scope of disclosures. 
The guidance note is given at Annexure 17. 
 
                                                           
37SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562 dated May 10, 2021.  
The BRSR was voluntary for FY 2021 -22 and mandatory from FY 2022 -23 for top-1000 listed entities. The requirement to submit 
BRR was discontinued after FY 2021-22. 
 
38The format for BRSR was revised for disclosures from FY2023-2024 onwards vide SEBI circular SEBI/HO/ CFD/CFD-SEC-
2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated July 12, 2023.

[Page 25]
Page 25 of 291 
 
2. BRSR Core39 
 
2.1 40[The BRSR Core is a sub-set of the BRSR, consisting of a set of Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs) / metrics under 9 ESG attributes. Keeping in  view the relevance to 
the Indian /Emerging market context, few new KPIs  have been identified for  
assessment or assurance such as job creation in small towns, open-ness of business, 
gross wages paid to women etc. 
Further, for better global comparability intensity ratios based on revenue adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) have been included. The format  of BRSR Core for 
assessment or assurance is placed at Annexure 17A. 
Further, it is specified that “assessment” refers to third-party assessment undertaken 
as per the standards developed by the Industry Standards Forum (ISF) in consultation 
with SEBI.  
2.2 In order to facilitate the verification process, the BRSR Core specifies the data 
and approach for reporting and assessment or assurance. It is clarified that the 
approach specified is only a base methodology. Any changes or  industry 
specific adjustments / estimations shall be disclosed.]  
 
2.3 For ease of reference, the BRSR Core contains a cross-reference to the disclosures 
contained in the BRSR. 
 
2.4 Applicability 
 
2.4.1 From FY 2023 – 2024, the top 1000 listed entities (by market capitalization) shall 
make disclosures as per the updated BRSR format, as part of their Annual Reports. 
 
2.4.2 41[Listed entities shall mandatorily undertake assessment or assurance of the 
BRSR Core, as per the glide path specified in the following table: 
 
                                                           
39SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated July 12, 2023 
40 Substituted with the issuance of Circular SE BI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2025/42 dated Mar 28, 2025. Prior to its substitution 
Para 2.1 and 2.2 read as under: 
“2.1 The BRSR Core is a sub-set of the BRSR, consisting of a set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) / metrics under 9 
ESG attributes. Keeping in view the relevance to the Indian / Emerging market context, few new KPIs have been identified 
for assurance such as job creation in small towns, open -ness of business, gross wages paid to women etc. Further, for 
better global comparability intensity ratios based on revenue adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) have been 
included. The format of BRSR Core for reasonable assurance is placed at Annexure 17A. 
2.2 In order to facilitate the verification process, the BRSR Core specifies the data and approach for reporting and 
assurance. It is however clarified that the approach specified is only a base methodology. Any changes or industry specific 
adjustments / estimations shall be disclosed.” 
41 Substituted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2025/42 dated Mar 28, 2025. Prior to its substitution 
Para 2.4.2 read as under: 
“Listed entities shall mandatorily undertake assurance of the BRSR Core, as per the glide path specified in the following 
table: 
Financial Year Applicability of BRSR Core to top listed entities (by market capitalization)  
2023 – 24 Top 150 listed entities 
2024 – 25 Top 250 listed entities 
2025 – 26 Top 500 listed entities 
2026 – 27 Top 1000 listed entities”

[Page 26]
Page 26 of 291 
 
 
Financial Year Applicability of BRSR Core to top listed entities 
(by market capitalization) 
2023 – 24 Top 150 listed entities 
2024 – 25 Top 250 listed entities 
2025 – 26 Top 500 listed entities 
2026 – 27 Top 1000 listed entities] 
 
2.5 42[Industry Standards for BRSR Core 
 
2.5.1 In order to facilitate ease of doing business and to bring about standardization in 
implementation, the Industry Standards Forum (“ISF”) comprising of 
representatives from three industry associations, viz. ASSOCHAM, CII and FICCI, 
under the aegis of the Stock Exchanges, has formulated industry standards, in 
consultation with SEBI, for effective implementation of the requirement to disclose 
BRSR Core. 
2.5.2 The industry associations which are part of ISF ( ASSOCHAM, FICCI, and CII) 
and the stock exchanges shall publish the aforesaid industry standards on their 
websites. 
2.5.3 The listed entities shall follow the above industry standards to ensure compliance 
with SEBI requirements on disclosure of BRSR Core. 
2.5.4 The aforesaid industry standards shall be applicable for FY 2024-25 and onwards.] 
 
3. ESG Disclosures for value chain 
 
3.1 43[Disclosures for value chain shall be made by the listed company as per BRSR Core, 
as part of its Annual Report. For this purpose, value chain shall encompass the top 
upstream and downstream partners of a listed entity, individually comprising 2% or 
more of the listed entity's purchases and sales (by value) respectively. However, the 
listed entity may limit disclosure of value chain to cover 75% of its purchases and 
sales (by value) respectively.] 
 
3.2 Listed entities shall report the KPIs in the BRSR Core for their value chain to the extent 
it is attributable to their business with that value chain partner. Such reporting may be 
segregated for upstream and downstream partners or can be reported on an 
aggregate basis. 
 
3.3 The scope of reporting and any assumptions or estimates, if any, shall be clearly 
disclosed. 
 
 
 
                                                           
42 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177 dated Dec 20, 2024 
43 Substituted with the issuance of SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2025/42 dated Mar 28, 2025. Prior to its substitution Para 3.1 
read as under: 
“Disclosures for value chain shall be made by the listed company as per BRSR Core, as part of its Annual Report. For this 
purpose, value chain shall e ncompass the top upstream and downstream partners of a listed entity, cumulatively 
comprising 75% of its purchases / sales (by value) respectively.”

[Page 27]
Page 27 of 291 
 
3.4 Applicability 
 
3.4.1 44[ESG disclosures for the value chain shall be applicable to the top 250 listed 
entities (by market capitalization), on a voluntary basis from FY 2025-26.  
3.4.2 The assessment or assurance of the above shall be applicable on a voluntary basis 
from FY 2026 - 27.] 
 
3.5 45[For the first year of reporting ESG disclosures for value chain, reporting of previous 
year numbers shall be voluntary. To illustrate, for value chain disclosures of FY 2025-26, 
reporting of previous year data (i.e., data for FY 2024-25) shall be voluntary. 
 
3.6 If a listed entity provides ESG disclosures for value chain, then it shall disclose the 
percentage of total sales and purchases covered by the value chain partners, 
respectively, for which ESG disclosure are provided.] 
 
4. 46[Assessment or Assurance provider 
 
4.1 The Board of the listed entity shall ensure that the assessment or assurance provider 
of the BRSR Core has the necessary expertise, for undertaking assessment or 
assurance. 
 
4.2 The listed entity shall ensure that there is no conflict of interest with the assessment 
or assurance provider appointed for assuring the BRSR Core. For instance, it shall be 
ensured that the assessment or assurance provider or any of its associates do not sell 
its products or provide any non -audit / non -assessment / non-assurance related 
service including consulting services, to the listed entity or its group entities.] 
 
****** 
  
                                                           
44 Substituted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-1/P/CIR/2025/42 dated Mar 28, 2025. Prior to its substitution 
Para 3.4.1 and 3.4.2 read as under: 
“3.4.1 ESG disclosures for the value chain shall be applicable to the top 250 listed entities (by market capitalization), on a 
comply-or-explain basis from FY 2024-25. 
3.4.2 The limited assurance of the above shall be applicable on a comply-or-explain basis from FY 2025 – 26.” 
45 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2025/42 dated Mar 28, 2025. 
46 Substituted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2025/42 dated Mar 28, 2025. Prior to its substitution 
Para 4 read as under: 
“4. Assurance provider 
4.1 The Board of the listed entity shall ensure that the assurance provider of the BRSR Core has the necessary expertise, 
for undertaking reasonable assurance. 
4.2 The listed entity shall ensure that there is no conflict of interest with the assurance provider appointed for assuring the 
BRSR Core. For instance, it shall be ensured that the assurance provider or any of its associates do not sell its products 
or provide any non -audit / non -assurance related service including consulting services, to the listed entity or its group 
entities.”

[Page 28]
Page 28 of 291 
 
CHAPTER V: EVENT-BASED DISCLOSURES 
Section V-A: Disclosure of material events / information by listed entities under 
regulation 30 and 30A of the LODR Regulations47 
 
1. In order to enable investors to make well -informed investment decisions, timely, adequate 
and accurate disclosure of information on an ongoing basis is essential. Further, there is a 
need to ensure uniformity in disclosures made by listed entities for ensuring compliance in 
letter and spirit. Towards this end, regulation 30of the LODR Regulations deals with 
disclosure of material events by every listed entity whose specified securities are listed and 
regulation 30A of LODR Regulations deals with disclosure requirements for certain types of 
agreements binding listed entity . Such an entity is required to make disclosure of events 
specified in Part A of Schedule III of the LODR Regulations. 
 
2. The LODR Regulations divide s the events that need to be disclosed broadly in two 
categories. The events that have  to be necessarily disclosed without applying any test of 
materiality are indicated in Para A of Part A of Schedule III of the LODR Regulation s. Para 
B of Part A of Schedule III indicates the events that should be disclosed by the listed entity, 
if considered material. 
 
3. Accordingly, this section consists of four annexures with respect to disclosure requirements 
under regulations 30 and 30A of the LODR Regulations which are given below: 
 
3.1. ANNEXURE 1848 specifies the details that need to be provided while disclosing events 
given in Part A of Schedule III. 
3.2. ANNEXURE 18A 49 specifies the timeline for disclosing events given in Part A of 
Schedule III. 
3.3. ANNEXURE 19 provides guidance on when an event / information can be said to have 
occurred. 
3.4. ANNEXURE 19A provides guidance on the criteria for determination of  materiality of 
events / information. 
 
4. The said details as mentioned above are given to provide guidance to listed entity and the 
entity has the responsibility to make disclosures that are appropriate and would be consistent 
with the facts of each event. I n case the listed entity does not disclose any such specified 
details, it shall state appropriate reasoning for the same as part of the disclosure. 
 
5. In case of securities or the derivatives which are listed outside India by the listed entity, parity 
in disclosures shall be followed and whatever is disclosed on overseas stock exchange(s) by 
the listed entity shall be simultaneously disclosed on the stock exchange(s) where the entity 
is listed in India. 
                                                           
47CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 dated September 9, 2015, effective from December 1, 2015 and SEBI/HO/CFD/C FD-PoD-
1/P/CIR/2023/123 dated July 13, 2023 
48Annexure 18 of this Master Circular is updated with issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated 
December 31, 2024 
49 Annexure 18A of this Master Circular is updated with issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated 
December 31, 2024

[Page 29]
Page 29 of 291 
 
 
506. [In order to facilitate ease of doing business, the Industry Standards Forum (“ISF”) 
comprising of representatives from three industry associations, viz. ASSOCHAM, CII and 
FICCI, under the aegis of the Stock Exchanges, has formulated industry standards, in 
consultation with SEBI, for effective implement ation of the requirement to disclose material 
events or information under Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR Regulations”). The industry associations which 
are part of ISF ( ASSOCHAM, FICCI, and CII) and the stock exchanges shall publish the 
industry standards note on their websites. The listed entities shall follow the aforesaid  
industry standards to ensure compliance with Regulation 30 of LODR Regulations.] 
******* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
50 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/25 dated February 25, 2025.

[Page 30]
Page 30 of 291 
 
 
Section V-AA: Verification of market rumours by listed entities 
 
1. The proviso to Regulation 30(11) of LODR Regulations inter-alia requires top 100 listed 
entities by market capitalization and thereafter the top 250 listed entities by market 
capitalization to verify market rumours, upon material price movement, from the date as 
specified by SEBI. The stock exchanges shall issue the f ramework for material price 
movement on their websites. 
 
2. The requirement to verify market rumours under Regulation 30(11) of LODR Regulations 
shall be applicable to top 100 listed entities with effect from June 01, 2024 and to top 250 
listed entities (i.e., next top 150) with effect from December 01, 202451. 
 
3. As per second proviso to Regulation 30(11) of LODR Regulations, unaffected price shall be 
considered for transactions on which pricing norms specified by SEBI or the stock exchanges 
are applicable, provided that the rumour pertaining to such transaction has been confirmed 
within 24 hours from the trigger of material price movement. 
 
Further, it has been specified that the unaffected price shall be considered by excluding the 
effect on the price of the equity shares of the listed entity due to the material price movement 
and confirmation of the rumour. Accordingly, the framework for considering unaffected price 
is placed as ANNEXURE 19AA and the same shall be applicable to t op 100 listed entities 
with effect from June 01, 2024 and to top 250 listed entities (i.e., next top 150) with effect 
from December 01, 2024.52 
 
4. In order to facilitate ease of doing business, the Industry Standards Forum (“ISF”) comprising 
of representatives from three industry associations, viz. ASSOCHAM, FICCI and CII, under 
the aegis of the Stock Exchanges, on a pilot basis, has formulated industry standards, in 
consultation with SEBI, for effective implementation of the requirement to verify market 
rumours under Regulation 30(11) of LODR Regulations. The industry associations which are 
part of ISF ( ASSOCHAM, FICCI, and CII) and the stock  exchanges has published the 
industry standards note on their websites. The listed entities shall follow the aforesaid 
industry standards to ensure compliance with Regulation 30(11) of LODR Regulations.53 
 
  
                                                           
51SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/7 dated January 25, 2024 
52SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/51 dated May 21, 2024 
53SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/52 dated May 21, 2024

[Page 31]
Page 31 of 291 
 
 
Section V-B: Disclosures by listed entities of defaults on payment of interest/ 
repayment of principal amount on loans from banks / financial institutions and 
unlisted debt securities54 
 
1. The LODR Regulations require s disclosure of material events / information by listed 
entities to Stock Exchanges . Specific disclosures are required under the LODR 
Regulations in certain matters such as delay / default in payment of interest / principal 
on debt securities such as Non -Convertible Debentures (NCDs), Non -Convertible 
Redeemable Preference Shares (NCRPS) etc. Similarly, default on loans taken from 
banks / financial institutions and on unlisted debt securities are also material information 
to the investors.   
 
2. Therefore, in order to ensure availability of information to investors on default by listed 
entities with respect to default on loans taken from banks / financial institutions or 
unlisted debt securities, the following requirements are being specified.  
 
3. Applicability: 
 
3.1. These provisions shall be applicable to all listed entities which have listed their 
specified securities (equity and convertible securities). 
 
3.2. The disclosures shall be made to the stock exchanges when the entity has defaulted 
in payment of interest / ins talment obligations on loans, including revolving facilities 
like cash credit, from banks / financial institutions and unlisted debt securities. 
 
3.3. ‘Default’ for the purpose of this Section shall mean non -payment of the interest or 
principal amount in full on the date when the debt has become due and payable (‘pre-
agreed payment date’). 
 
Provided that for revolving facilities like cash credit, an entity would be considered to 
be in ‘ default’ if the outstanding balance remains continuously in excess of the 
sanctioned limit or drawing power, whichever is lower, for more than 30 days. 
 
4. Timing of disclosures: 
 
4.1. Listed entities shall make disclosure of any default on loans, including revolving 
facilities like cash credit, from banks / financial institutions which continues beyond 30 
days. Such disclosure shall be made promptly, but not later than 24 hours from the 
30th day of such default. 
 
4.2. In case of unlisted debt securities i.e. NCDs and NCRPS, the disclosure shall be made 
promptly but not later than 24 hours from the occurrence of the default. This is in line 
with the existing disclosure requirements specified for listed debt instruments. 
Disclosures shall be made in the format(s) specified in paragraph5 below. 
                                                           
54SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2019/140 dated November 21, 2019, effective from January 1, 2020, 
including the quarterly disclosures.

[Page 32]
Page 32 of 291 
 
 
5. Disclosure formats: 
 
5.1. The following details shall be disclosed by listed entities for each instance of default, 
as specified in Paragraph4 above: 
a. For loans including revolving facilities like cash credit from banks / financial 
institutions: 
Sr. No Type of disclosure Details 
1. Name of the Listed entity  
2. Date of making the disclosure  
3. Nature of obligation  
4. Name of the Lender(s)  
5. Date of default  
6. Current default amount (break-up of principal and interest 
in INR crore)  
7. Details of the obligation (total principal amount in INR crore, 
tenure, interest rate, secured / unsecured etc.)  
8. Total amount of outstanding borrowings from Banks/ 
financial institutions (in INR crore)  
9. Total financial indebtedness of the listed entity including 
short-term and long-term debt (in INR crore)  
 
b. For unlisted debt securities i.e. NCDs and NCRPS: 
Sr. No Type of disclosure  Details 
1. Name of the Listed entity  
2. Date of making the disclosure  
3. Type of instrument with ISIN  
4. Number of investors in the security as on date of default  
5. Date of default  
6. Current default amount (break-up of principal and interest in 
INR crore)  
7. Details of the obligation (amount issued, 
tenure, coupon, secured/unsecured, redemption date etc.)  
8. Total amount issued through debt securities (in INR crore)  
9. Total financial indebtedness of the listed entity including 
short-term and long-term debt (in INR crore)  
 
5.2. Disclosures specified in the table below shall be made by listed entities, if on the 
last date of any quarter: 
a. Any loan including revolving facilities like cash credit from banks / financial 
institutions where the default continues beyond 30 days or 
b. There is any outstanding debt security under default.

[Page 33]
Page 33 of 291 
 
 
S. No. Particulars in INR crore 
1. Loans / revolving facilities like cash credit from banks / financial 
institutions 
A Total amount outstanding as on date  
B Of the total amount outstanding, amount of default as on 
date 
 
2. Unlisted debt securities i.e. NCDs and NCRPS 
A Total amount outstanding as on date  
B Of the total amount outstanding, amount of default as on 
date 
 
3. Total financial indebtedness of the listed entity 
including short-term and long-term debt 
 
 
The above disclosure shall be 55[part of the quarterly Integrated Filing (Financial) of the 
listed entity] as specified in Annexure-25 to this circular]. 
6. As far as disclosures pertaining to default  of listed NCDs / listed NCRPS / listed 
Commercial paper are concerned, the same would continue to be made as per the 
present provisions of the SEBI Regulations and Circulars issued thereunder. 
 
****** 
  
                                                           
55 Substituted for  the words “ made within 7 days from the end of each quarter ”, pursuant to the issuance of Circular 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular.

[Page 34]
Page 34 of 291 
 
 
Section V-C: Disclosure of divergence in the asset classification and 
provisioning by banks.56 
1. Regulation 30 of the LODR Regulations requires every listed entity to disclose to stock 
exchange(s) all events or information, which are material, as soon as reasonably 
possible and not later than 24 hours from occurrence of event or information. Further, 
SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 mandates prompt disclosure 
of unpublished price sensitive information that would impact price discovery no sooner 
than credible and concrete information comes into being. 
2. RBI vide Notification No RBI/ 2016-17/283; DBR.BP.BC.No. 63/21.04.018/ 2016 -17 
dated April 18, 2017 and amended Notification No. RBI/2018 - 
19/157;DBR.BP.BC.No.32/21.04.018 /2018-19 dated April 1, 2019 mandated banks 
to disclose certain cases of divergence in the asset classification an d provisioning in 
the notes to accounts in the ensuing Annual Financial Statements published 
immediately following communication of such divergence by RBI to the bank. 
3. SEBI, vide circular dated October 31, 2019 and after discussions with RBI, had 
directed listed banks to make disclosures of divergence in asset classification and 
provisioning beyond the specified thresholds within 24 hours of receipt of the Reserve 
Bank’s Final Risk Assessment Report (“ RAR”), rather than waiting to publish the 
information as  part of annual financial statements as mandated by the aforesaid 
notification of RBI. These disclosures are in the nature of material events / information 
and hence, necessitate immediate disclosure. Further, this information is also price 
sensitive, requiring prompt disclosure. SEBI had also specified the format for such 
disclosures in the aforesaid circular.  
4. RBI, vide RBI (Financial Statements – Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2021 
– Disclosure of Divergence in Asset Classification and Provisi oning, dated October 
11, 2022, has revised the thresholds for disclosure of divergence in asset classification 
and provisioning by banks.  
5. In view of the above, it has been decided that listed banks shall make disclosures of 
divergences and provisioning in  either or both of the following cases, as soon as 
reasonably possible and not later than 24 hours upon receipt of the RAR: 
a. Additional provisioning for Non -Performing Assets (NPAs) assessed by RBI 
exceeds the 5% of reported profit before provisions and con tingencies for the 
reference period, and 
b. Additional gross NPAs identified by RBI exceeds 5% of the reported incremental 
gross NPAs for the reference period. 
6. The format to be used for making such disclosures is specified at Annexure 20 of this 
circular. 
***** 
                                                           
56CIR/CFD/CMD1/120/2019 dated October 31, 2019.

[Page 35]
Page 35 of 291 
 
Section V-D: Resignation of statutory auditors from listed entities and their material 
subsidiaries57 
1. Listed entities are required to make timely disclosures to investors in the securities 
market for enabling them to take informed investment decisions. 
 
2. Under sub-clause (2) of Clause A in Part C of Schedule II under Regulation 18(3) of 
the LODR Regulations, the Audit Committee of a listed entity, inter alia, has to make 
recommendations for the appointment, remuneration  and terms of appointment of 
auditors of a listed entity. Under Sub -clause (7), the Audit Committee is also 
responsible for reviewing and monitoring the independence and performance of 
auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process. 
 
3. Further, clause (7A) of Para A in Part A of Schedule III of the LODR Regulations 
requires detailed reasons to be disclosed by the listed entities to the stock 
exchanges in case of resignation of the auditor of a listed entity as soon as possible 
but not later than twenty-four hours of receipt of such reasons from the auditor. 
 
4. Regulation 36(5) of the LODR Regulations lays down certain disclosures to be made 
part of the notice to the shareholders for an AGM, where the statutory auditors are 
proposed to be appointed/re-appointed, including their terms of appointment. 
 
5. Resignation of an auditor of a listed entity / its material subsidiary before completion 
of the audit of the financial results for the year due to reasons such as pre-occupation 
may seriously ham per investor confidence and deny them access to reliable 
information for taking timely investment decisions. 
 
6. In light of the above, the conditions to be complied with upon resignation of the 
statutory auditor of a listed entity/material subsidiary w.r.t. limited review / audit 
report as per LODR Regulations, are as under: 
 
6.1. All listed entities/material subsidiaries shall ensure compliance with the 
following conditions while appointing/re-appointing an auditor: 
 
6.1.1. If the auditor resigns within 45 days from the end of a quarter of a financial year, 
then the auditor shall, before such resignation, issue the limited review/ audit 
report for such quarter. 
 
6.1.2. If the auditor resigns after 45 days from the end of a quarter of a financial year, 
then the auditor shall, be fore such resignation, issue the limited review/ audit 
report for such quarter as well as the next quarter. 
 
6.1.3. Notwithstanding the above, if the auditor has signed the limited review/ audit 
report for the first three quarters of a financial year, then the auditor shall, before 
such resignation, issue the limited review/ audit report for the last quarter of such 
financial year as well as the audit report for such financial year. 
                                                           
57CIR/CFD/CMD1/114/2019 dated October 18, 2019.

[Page 36]
Page 36 of 291 
 
 
6.2. Other conditions relating to resignation shall include: 
 
6.2.1. Reporting of concerns with respect to the listed entity/its material 
subsidiary to the Audit Committee: 
 
6.2.1.1. In case of any concern with the management of the listed entity/material 
subsidiary such as non-availability of information / non-cooperation by the 
management which may ham per the audit process, the auditor shall 
approach the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the listed entity and the 
Audit Committee shall receive such concern directly and immediately 
without specifically waiting for the quarterly Audit Committee meetings. 
 
6.2.1.2. In case the auditor proposes to resign, all concerns with respect to the 
proposed resignation, along with relevant documents shall be brought to 
the notice of the Audit Committee. In cases where the proposed resignation 
is due to non -receipt of informatio n / explanation from the company, the 
auditor shall inform the Audit Committee of the details of information / 
explanation sought and not provided by the management, as applicable. 
 
6.2.1.3. On receipt of such information from the auditor relating to the proposal t o 
resign as mentioned above, the Audit Committee / board of directors, as 
the case may be, shall deliberate on the matter and communicate its views 
to the management and the auditor. 
 
6.2.2. Disclaimer in case of non-receipt of information: 
 
In case the listed entity/ its material subsidiary does not provide information 
required by the auditor, to that extent, the auditor shall provide an appropriate 
disclaimer in the audit report, which may be in accordance with the Standards 
of Auditing as specified by ICAI / NFRA. 
 
7. The listed entity/ material subsidiary shall ensure that the conditions as mentioned 
in paragraph 6.1 and 6.2  above are included in the terms of appointment of the 
statutory auditor at the time of appointing/re -appointing the auditor. In case the 
auditor has already been appointed, the terms of appointment shall be suitably 
modified to give effect to paragraph 6.1 and 6.2 above. 
 
8. The Practicing Company Secretary shall certify compliance by a listed entity with 
paragraph 6.1 and 6.2 above in the annual secretarial compliance report issued in 
terms of section IV-A of chapter IV of this circular.

[Page 37]
Page 37 of 291 
 
9. Obligations of the listed entity and its material subsidiary: 
 
9.1. Format of information to be obtained from the statutory auditor upon 
resignation: 
 
9.1.1. Upon resignation, the listed entity / its material subsidiary shall obtain 
information from the Auditor in the format as spec ified in Annexure 21 to this 
circular. The listed entity shall ensure disclosure of the same under clause (7A) 
of Para A in Part A of Schedule III under Regulation 30(2) of SEBI LODR 
Regulations. 
 
9.2. Co-operation by listed entity and its material subsidiary: 
 
9.2.1. During the period from when the auditor proposes to resign till the auditor 
submits the report for such quarter / financial year as specified above, the listed 
entity and its material subsidiaries shall continue to provide all  such 
documents/information as may be necessary for the audit / limited review. 
 
9.3. Disclosure of Audit Committee’s views to the Stock Exchanges: 
 
9.3.1. Upon resignation of the auditor, the Audit Committee shall deliberate upon all 
the concerns raised by the audito r with respect to its resignation as soon as 
possible, but not later than the date of the next Audit Committee meeting and 
communicate its views to the management. The listed entity shall ensure the 
disclosure of the Audit Committee’s views to the stock ex changes as soon as 
possible but not later than twenty -four hours after the date of such Audit 
Committee meeting. 
 
10. In case an entity is not mandated to have an Audit Committee, then the board of 
directors of the entity shall ensure compliance of the provisions of this section of the 
master circular. 
 
11. In case the auditor is rendered disqualified due to operation of any condition 
mentioned in Section 141 of the Companies Act, 2013, then the aforesaid provisions 
shall not apply. 
 
12. The aforesaid provisions with respect to resignation of auditors shall be in additions 
to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. 
  
*******

[Page 38]
Page 38 of 291 
 
 
CHAPTER VI: OTHER OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS 
Section VI-A: Manner of achieving Minimum Public Shareholding58 
 
1. Regulation 38 of the LODR Regulations requires every listed entity to comply with 
Minimum Public Shareholding (MPS) requirements as specified in Rule 19(2)(b) and Rule 
19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957  (“SCRR”)in the manner as 
specified by the Board from time to time.  
 
2. Accordingly, a listed entity shall adopt any of the following methods in order to achieve 
compliance with the MPS requirements mandated under rules 19(2)(b) and 19A of the 
SCRR read with regulation 38 of the LODR Regulations: 
 
No. Method Specific conditions, if any, applicable 
1. Issuance of shares to public through 
prospectus 
- 
2. Offer for sale of shares held by 
promoter(s) / promoter group to public 
through prospectus 
- 
3. Offer for sale of shares held by 
promoter(s) / promoter group through the 
Stock Exchange mechanism i.e., the 
secondary market, in terms of circular 
reference No. SEBI/HO/MRD/MRD-PoD-
3/P/CIR/ 2023/10 dated January 10, 
2023, as amended from time to time. 
- 
4. Rights issue to public shareholders Promoter(s) / promoter group shareholders 
shall forgo their entitlement to equity shares 
that may arise from such issue. 
5. Bonus Issue to public shareholders Promoter(s) / promoter group shareholders 
shall forgo their entitlement to equity shares 
that may arise from such issue.  
6. Allotment of equity shares under 
Qualified Institutions Placement in terms 
of Chapter VI of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018. 
- 
7. Sale of shares held by promoter(s) / 
promoter group in the open market in any 
i. Promoter(s) / Promoter group can use 
either the mechanism specified at Sl.  
                                                           
58SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/P/CIR/2023/18 dated February 03, 2023.  
 
The circular introduced two additional methods viz., Sl. No. 8 and 9, to the methods prescribed by circular dated February 22, 2018 
and modified the method on open market sale by promoter / promoter group.

[Page 39]
Page 39 of 291 
 
No. Method Specific conditions, if any, applicable 
one of the following ways, subject to 
compliance with the conditions specified: 
 
i. Promoter(s) / Promoter group can 
sell up to 2% of the total paid -up 
equity share capital of the  listed 
entity, subject to five times’ average 
monthly trading volume of the shares 
of the listed entity, every financial 
year till the due date for MPS 
compliance as per the SCRR (or) 
 
ii. Promoter(s) / Promoter group can 
sell upto a maximum of 5% of the 
paid-up capital of the listed entity 
during a financial year subject to the 
condition that the public holding in 
the listed entity shall become 25% 
after completion of such sale. The 
sale can be a single tranche or in 
multiple tranches not exceeding a 
period of 12 months and the amount 
of shares to be sold shall not exceed 
the trading volume of the shares of 
the listed entity during the preceding 
12 months from the date of 
announcement.  
No. 7(i) or 7(ii) to comply with MPS 
requirements, but not both.   
 
ii. The listed entity shall, at least one 
trading day prior to every such 
proposed sale, announce the following 
details to the stock exchange(s) where 
its shares are listed: 
a) the intention of the promoter(s) / 
promoter group to sell and the 
purpose of sale; 
b) the details of promoter(s)/promoter 
group, who propose to divest their 
shareholding; 
c) total number of shares and 
percentage of shareholding in the 
listed entity that is proposed to be 
divested; and 
d) the period within which the entire 
divestment process will be 
completed. 
 
iii. The listed entity shall also give an 
undertaking to the recognized stock 
exchange(s) obtained from the persons 
belonging to the promoter and promoter 
group that they shall not buy any shares 
in the open market on the dates on 
which the shares are being sold by 
promoter(s)/promoter group as stated 
above. 
 
iv. The listed entity, its promoter(s) and 
promoter group shall ensure 
compliance with all applicable legal 
provisions including that of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015 and Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011. 
 
8. Increase in public holding pursuant t o 
exercise of options and allotment of 
shares under an employee stock option 
The ESOS scheme shall be in compliance 
with the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Share Based Employee Benefits and

[Page 40]
Page 40 of 291 
 
No. Method Specific conditions, if any, applicable 
scheme, subject to a maximum of 2% of 
the paid -up equity share capital of the 
listed entity.  
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and the 
promoter(s) / promoter group shall not be 
allotted any shares.   
 
9. Transfer of shares held by promoter(s) / 
promoter group to an Exchange Traded 
Fund (ETF) managed by a SEBI -
registered mutual fund, subject to a 
maximum of  5% of the paid -up equity 
share capital of the listed entity. 
The listed entity shall, at least one trading 
day prior to such pr oposed transfer, 
announce the following details to the stock 
exchange(s) where its shares are listed: 
i. the intention of the promoter(s) 
/promoter group to transfer shares and 
the purpose of such transfer; 
ii. the details of promoter(s)/promoter 
group who propos e to transfer their 
shares in the listed entity; 
iii. total number of shares and percentage 
of shareholding proposed to be 
transferred; and 
iv. Details of the ETF to which shares are 
proposed to be transferred by the 
promoter / promoter group. 
 
The listed entity sh all also give an 
undertaking to the recognized stock 
exchange(s) obtained from the persons 
belonging to the promoter and promoter 
group that they shall not subscribe to the 
units of such ETF to which shares have 
been transferred by promoter(s) / promoter 
group entities for the purpose of MPS 
compliance. 
10. Any other method as may be approved by 
the Board on a case to case basis. 
The listed entity shall approach the Board 
with an application containing relevant 
details to obtain prior permission.  
 
The Board would endeavour to 
communicate its decision within 30 days 
from the date of receipt of the proposal or 
the date of receipt of additional information 
as sought from the listed entity. 
 
3. The Stock Exchange(s) shall monitor the methods adopted by listed entities to increase 
their public holding and comply with MPS requirements in terms of this  Section. Non-
compliance, if any, observed by the Stock Exchange(s) with respect to the method(s) and 
/ or conditions prescribed herein, shall be reported to SEBI on a quarterly basis. 
*****

[Page 41]
Page 41 of 291 
 
 
Section VI-B: Format for submission of voting results59 
 
1. Regulation 44(3) of the LODR Regulations requires listed entities to submit the 
details regarding the voting results in the format specified by the Board within two 
working days of conclusion of its General Meeting.  
 
2. Accordingly, t he format for voting results to be furnished by the listed entities is 
specified in Annexure 22 to this circular. 
 
****** 
 
  
                                                           
59CIR/CFD/CMD/8/2015 dated November 4, 2015, effective from December 1, 2015.

[Page 42]
Page 42 of 291 
 
Section VI-C: e-voting facility provided by listed entities60 
 
1. Under Regulation 44(1) of LODR Regulations, listed entities are required to provide 
remote e-voting facility to its shareholders, in respect of all shareholders’ resolutions. 
However, it has been observed that the participation by the public non -institutional 
shareholders/ retail shareholders is at a negligible level. 
 
2. In order to increase the efficiency of the voting process, it has been decided to 
enable e-voting to all the demat account holders, by way of a single login credential, 
through their demat accounts/ websites of De positories/ Depository Participants. 
Demat account holders would be able to cast their vote without having to register 
again with the ESPs, thereby, not only facilitating seamless authentication but also 
enhancing ease and convenience of participating in e-voting process. The following 
options shall be provided to the shareholders: 
 
2.1. Direct registration with Depositories – Shareholders can register directly with the 
depository. Depositories shall allow login through registered Mobile number / E-
mail based One Time Password (OTP) verification as an alternate to login 
through username and password. Shareholders would be able to access the e-
voting page of various ESPs through the websites of the Depositories without 
further authentication by ESPs for participating in the e-voting process. 
 
2.2. Through Depository Participants - Shareholders would be able to access the e-
voting page of various ESPs through the link provided on the websites of the 
Depositories Participants. The shareholders would be routed to the webpage of 
the respective Depositories where the requisite details (client ID, PAN, username 
etc.) have to be entered, which in turn would enable access to the e -voting 
portals of various ESPs without further authentication by ESPs for participating 
in the e-voting process. 
 
(OR) 
  
2.3. Through Demat Accounts with Depository Participants – Demat account holders 
will have the option of accessing various ESP portals directly from their demat 
accounts. They would be routed to the webpage of the respective Depositories  
from their demat accounts, which in turn would enable access to the e -voting 
portals of various ESPs without further authentication by ESPs for participating 
in the e-voting process. 
 
3. For the methods mentioned at para graph 2.2 and 2.3 above, t he depository shall 
validate the demat account holder through a n OTP verification process before the 
demat account holders can access the websites of the Depositories. This will further 
enhance the security of the e -voting system. The authentication of shareholders 
                                                           
60 SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, 2020 and the implementation was in phases.

[Page 43]
Page 43 of 291 
 
would happen at the depository level and ESPs shall allow the demat account 
holders to cast their vote based on the validation carried out by the Depository. 
 
4. Depository shall send a confirmatory SMS to the shareholders that the vote has been 
cast based on the confirmation received from the ESP. 
 
 
5. The listed entity shall provide the details of the upcoming AGMs requiring voting to 
the Depository. The depository shall send SMS/email alerts in this regard, to the 
demat account holders, atleast 2 days prior to the date of the commencement of e-
voting. 
 
6. Depository may advise the demat account holders to update their mobile number 
and email ID in order to access the e-voting facility. 
 
7. Depositories shall establish a dedicated he lpline to resolve technical difficulties 
faced by shareholders relating to the e -voting facility. Further, the listed company 
shall ensure that the ESPs engaged by them also provide a dedicated helpline in 
this regard. 
 
8. In order to enable better deliberation and decision making by the shareholders while 
casting their votes, ESP Portals shall provide specific weblinks to the following: 
 
a) disclosures by the company on the websites of the stock exchanges 
b) report on the websites of the proxy advisors.  
 
9. The aforementioned facilities shall be available to all individual shareholders holding 
the securities in demat mode. ESPs may continue to provide the facility of e -voting 
as per the existing process to all physical shareholders and shareholders other than 
individuals’ viz. institutions/ corporate shareholders. 
 
10. All listed companies are advised to notify the above process available to demat 
account holders for e-voting in the notice sent to the shareholders. 
 
11. The aforesaid provisions shall be in addition to the requirements of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder. 
 
 
*****

[Page 44]
Page 44 of 291 
 
 
Section VI-D: Guidance Note on Board Evaluation by listed entities61 
 
1. The Companies Act, 2013 and the LODR Regulations contain broad provisions on 
Board Evaluation i.e. evaluation of the performance of: (i) the Board as a whole, 
(ii) individual directors (including independent directors and Chairperson) and (iii) 
various Committees of the Board. The provisions also specify responsibilities of 
various persons / committees for conduct of such evaluation and certain disclosure 
requirements as a part of the listed entity's corporate governance obligations. 
 
2. A guidance note in this matter has been prepared (Annexure 23) in order to guide 
listed entities by elaborating various aspects of Board evaluation that may help 
them to improve the evaluation process, derive the best possible benefit and 
achieve the objective of the entire process.  This is based on an analysis of the 
global practices in various ju risdictions like regulatory requirements, best 
practices, internal versus external evaluation, disclosure requirements etc. and 
discussions with the industry associations, stock exchanges, market participants 
etc.  
 
3. The guidance note covers all major aspects of Board Evaluation including the 
following: 
a) Subject of Evaluation i.e. who is to be evaluated; 
b) Process of Evaluation including laying down of objectives and criteria to be 
adopted for evaluation of different persons; 
c) Feedback to the persons being evaluated; 
d) Action Plan based on the results of the evaluation process; 
e) Disclosure to stakeholders on various aspects; 
f) Frequency of Board Evaluation; 
g) Responsibility of Board Evaluation and 
h) Review of the entire evaluation process periodically. 
 
4. The listed entity may consider the following as a part of its disclosures on board 
evaluation: 
a) Observations of board evaluation carried out for the year  
b) Previous year’s observations and actions taken 
c) Proposed actions based on current year observations.  
 
5. The purpose of the Guidance Note is to educate the listed entities and their Board 
of Directors about various aspects involved in the Board Evaluation process and 
improve their overall performance as well as corporate governance standards to 
benefit all stakeholders. This would serve as a guide for listed entities and may be 
adopted by them as considered appropriate. Anything mentioned in the Guidance 
Note shall not be construed as interpretation of provisions of the LODR 
Regulations or any other law. 
                                                           
61SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/004 dated January 5, 2017

[Page 45]
Page 45 of 291 
 
 
 
Section VI-E:Disclosures regarding commodity risks by listed entities62 
 
1. Regulation 34(3) read with clause 9(n) of Par a C of Schedule V of the LODR 
Regulations mandates listed entities to make disclosures regarding commodity 
price risk and hedging activities in the Corporate Governance Report section of the 
Annual Report of a listed entity.  
 
2. Therefore, all listed entities  shall make the disclosures in the format specified in 
Annexure 24 to this circular  as part of the Corporate Governance Report in the 
Annual Report.  
 
****** 
  
                                                           
62SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2018/141 dated November 15, 2018

[Page 46]
Page 46 of 291 
 
 
Section VI-F: Standard Operating Procedures for dispute resolution available 
under the stock exchange arbitration mechanism for disputes between a 
listed entity and its shareholder(s)/investor(s)63 
 
1. Regulation 40 of the LODR Regulations, bye-laws, listing agreement & regulations 
of the stock exchanges provide for dispute resolution under the stock exchange 
arbitration mechanism for disputes between a listed company and its 
shareholder(s)/ investor(s).  
 
2. In this regard, stock exchanges were advised to put in place by June 01, 2022, a 
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for operationalizing the resolution of all 
disputes pertaining to or emanating from investor services such as 
transfer/transmission of shares, demat  / remat, issue of duplicate shares, 
transposition of holders, etc. and i nvestor entitlements like corporate benefits, 
dividend, bonus shares, rights entitlements, credit of securities in public issue, 
interest /coupon payments on securities, etc. The said SOP is available on the 
respective websites of recognized stock exchanges.  
 
3. Further, in respect of disputes in the aforesaid matters where Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agents (RTA) are offering services to shareholder(s)/ investor(s) on behalf 
of listed entities, the RTAs shall continue to be subjected to the stock exchange 
arbitration mechanism.  
 
***** 
  
                                                           
63SEBI/HO/CFD/SSEP/CIR/P/2022/48 dated April 8, 2022

[Page 47]
Page 47 of 291 
 
 
Section VI-G: Grievance resolution between listed entities and proxy 
advisors64 
 
1. Regulation   4(2)(a) of   the   LODR Regulations casts certain obligations  on  listed  
entities  to  protect  and facilitate the exercise of the rights of shareholders, including: 
a) right to participate in, and to be sufficiently informed of, decisions concerning 
fundamental corporate changes, 
b) opportunity to  participate effectively and vote in general shareholder 
meetings 
c) effective shareholder participation in key corporate governance decisions, 
such as the nomination and election of members of board of director sand 
d) exercise of ownership rights by all shareho lders, including institutional 
investors. 
 
2. Proxy advisors, over the past few years, have played a key role in enabling 
shareholders to effectively participate in corporate governance decisions  and thus, 
furthering the achievement of the above objectives. Proxy advisors provide advice 
to institutional investors /shareholders of a listed entity, in relation to exercise of their 
rights in the company including voting recommendation on agenda items. However, 
due to the inherent nature of the work, it is probabl e that proxy advisors and listed 
entities may have different views on any agenda item of the listed entity  leading to 
grievances.  
 
3. In order to facilitate resolution of such grievances of listed entities against SEBI 
registered proxy advisors, the listed entities may approach SEBI.   
 
4. SEBI will examine the matter  for non -compliance by proxy advisors with the 
provisions of  the  Code of  Conduct  under regulation  24(2)  read  with  regulation  
23(1)  of  the SEBI  (Research  Analyst)  Regulations, 2014 , as amended from time 
to time and the procedural  guidelines for proxy  advisors issued vide SEBI circular 
no. SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2020/147 dated August 03, 2020  and subsequently 
subsumed in circular no.  SEBI/HO/MIRSD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/90 dated June 15, 
2023, to resolve the grievance. 
 
****** 
  
                                                           
64SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/119 dated August 4, 2020 and SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/159 dated August 27, 2020; 
made effective from January 1, 2021.

[Page 48]
Page 48 of 291 
 
 
Section VI-H: Implementation of certain recommendations of the Committee on 
Corporate Governance headed by Mr. Uday Kotak65 
 
1. The Committee on Corporate Governance under the Chairmanship of Mr. Uday Kotak 
made several recommendations to SEBI in its report dated October 5, 2017. Most of 
the amendments necessary to implement these recommendations have been made 
in the LODR Regulations. There a few recommendations as accepted by the Board 
which are implemented through issue of a circular. 
 
2. Accordingly, the following provisions shall apply to entities whose equity shares are 
listed on a recognized stock exchange: 
 
2.1. Group Governance Unit: 
 
2.1.1. Where the listed entity has a large number of unlisted subsidiaries: 
 
i. The listed entity may monitor their governance through a dedicated group 
governance unit or Governance Committee 66[***]. 
ii. A strong and effective group governance policy may be established by the 
entity.  
iii. 67[***]  
 
2.2. Medium-term and long-term strategy: 
 
2.2.1. The listed entity may consider the following with respect to disclosure of 
medium-term and long-term strategy of the entity: 
 
i. It may disclose, under the Management Discussion and Analysis section of 
the Annual report, within the limits set by its competitive position, its medium-
term and long -term strategy based on a time frame as determined by its 
board of directors. 
ii. The listed entity may articulate a clear set of long -term metrics specific to 
the company's long-term strategy to allow for appropriate measurem ent of 
progress. 
 
***** 
  
                                                           
65 SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2018/79 dated May 10, 2018 
66 Omitted “comprising the members of its board of directors ” pursuant to issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-
2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular. 
67 Omitted pursuant to issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is 
incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular. Prior to omission Para (iii) read as under:  
“(iii) The decision of setting up of such a unit/committee or having such a policy shall lie with the board of directors of the listed entity.”

[Page 49]
Page 49 of 291 
 
 
Section VI-I:Applicability of regulation 40(1) of LODR Regulations to 
buybacks and delisting of securities of listed entities68 
 
1. The first proviso to regulation 40(1) of the LODR Regulations states that the requests for 
effecting transfer of securities of a listed entity shall not be processed unless the 
securities are held in dematerialized form with a depository. Similarly, the second proviso 
states that transmission or transposition of sec urities held in physical or dematerialised 
form shall be effected only in dematerialized form.  
2. SEBI had received representations from investors expressing concerns that they have 
not been able to participate in open offers, buybacks and delisting of secur ities of listed 
entities since the securities held by them were not in dematerialized form.  
3. In this context, it is clarified that shareholders holding securities in physical form are 
allowed to tender in buy -backs through tender offer route and exit offer s in case of 
voluntary or compulsory delisting. However, such tendering shall be as per the provisions 
of respective Regulations. Further, tendering of physical shares in open offers shall be 
governed by the provisions of chapter 7 of the SEBI Master Circu lar no. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/31 dated February 16, 2023.  
***** 
 
  
                                                           
68SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/144 dated July 31, 2020

[Page 50]
Page 50 of 291 
 
 
69Section VI-J: [***]70 
 
1. [***] 
 
2. [***] 
 
3. [***] 
 
4. [***] 
 
  
                                                           
69 Omitted pursuant to relaxations provided under Regulation 36(1)(b) and Regulation 44(4) vide Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (link). Before omission, Section VI-J 
read as under: 
 
[Section VI-J: Relaxation from compliance with certain provisions of the LODR Regulations 
 
1. Regulation 36(1)(b) of the LODR Regulations requires every listed entity to dispatch the hard copy of the abridged annual 
report viz., a statement containing salient features of all the documents as prescribed in section 136 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (financial statements, Board’s report, Auditor’s report etc.), to those shareholders who have not registered their 
email addresses. 
2. MCA, vide  General   Circular  No.09/2023  dated  September  25,  2023,  has  extended  the relaxation from sending 
physical copies of financial statements (including Board’s report, Auditor’s report or other documents required to be 
attached therewith) to the shareholders, for the AGMs conducted till September 30, 2024. 
 
3. In view of the above, the applicability of regulation 36(1)(b) of the LODR Regulations is relaxed for the AGMs conducted 
till September 30, 2024. Further, the requirement of sending proxy forms under regulation 44(4) of the LODR Regulations 
is dispensed with till September 30, 2024 for general meetings held only through electronic mode.  
 
4. The listed entities shall ensure compliance with the following conditions while utilizing the relaxation specified above: 
 
4.1. In terms of regulation 36(1)(c) of the LODR Regulations, listed entities are required to send hard copy of full 
annual reports to those shareholders who request for the same. 
4.2. The notice of AGM published by advertisement in terms of regulation 47 of the LODR Regulations shall disclose 
the web-link to the annual report so as to enable shareholders to have access to the full annual report.] 
 
70SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/167 dated October 07, 2023

[Page 51]
Page 51 of 291 
 
 
71[Section VI-K: Clarification on the position of Compliance Officer in terms of 
regulation 6 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 – Reg. 
 
1. The proviso to regulation 6(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“ LODR Regulations ”) inter-alia requires the 
Compliance Officer of a listed entity to be i n whole-time employment of the listed entity, 
not more than one level below the board of directors, and designated as a Key Managerial 
Personnel.  
 
2. It is clarified that the term ‘level’ used in regulation 6(1) refers to the position of the 
Compliance Officer in the organization structure of the listed entity. Therefore, ‘one-level 
below the board of directors’ means one -level below the Managing Directo r or Whole -
time Director(s) who are part of the Board of Directors of the listed entity. This will be in 
line with regulation 2(1)(o) of the LODR Regulations read with section 2(51) of the 
Companies Act, 2013.  
 
3. In case a listed entity does not have a Managing Director or a Whole-Time Director, then 
the Compliance Officer shall not be more than one-level below the Chief Executive Officer 
or Manager or any other person heading the day-to-day affairs of the listed entity.]  
 
 
******** 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
71 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2025/47 dated April 01, 2025

[Page 52]
Page 52 of 291 
 
 
 
72[Section VI-L: Implementation of recommendations of the Expert Committee for 
facilitating ease of doing business for listed entities 
 
1. Pursuant to the recommendation of the recommendations of the Expert Committee73 that 
was set up to inter-alia review the LODR Regulations from the point of view of facilitating 
ease of doing business for listed entities , amendments to the LODR Regulations were 
published in the Gazette of India on December 13, 2024. 
 
2. Consequently, circular is issued to give effect to certain recommendations of the Expert 
Committee and carry out consequential changes to the provisions of the Master Circular, 
the details of which are given in the subsequent paragraphs. 
 
Integrated Filing 
 
3. In order to facilitate ease of filing and compliance for listed entities, it has been decided 
to introduce Integrated Filing, in terms of regulation 10(1A) of the LODR Regulations, for 
the following Governance and Financial related periodic filings required under the LODR, 
which shall be applicable for the filings to be done for the quarter ending 31 st 
December 2024 and thereafter: 
 
Sr. No. Regulation / 
circular 
Periodic Filing Revised 
Timeline 
Frequency 
Integrated Filing (Governance) 
1. 13(3) Statement on redressal of 
investor grievances 
Within 30 days of the 
end of 
the quarter. 
Quarterly 
2. 27(2)(a) Compliance Report on 
Corporate Governance 
Quarterly 
Integrated Filing (Financial) 
3. 23(9) Disclosure  of  Related 
Party       Transactions 
(RPTs) 
Within 45 days of the 
end of 
the quarter & 60 days 
from e nd of  the last 
quarter & financial 
year. 
Half Yearly 
4. Reg.  30  r/w 
section V -B of  
the Master 
Circular 
Quarterly disclosure of 
outstanding default on 
loans / debt securities 
Quarterly 
5. 32(1) Statement of Deviation 
and Variation 
Quarterly 
6. 33(3) Financial results Quarterly 
 
The format of quarterly Integrated Filing i.e., Integrated Filing (Governance) and 
Integrated Filing (Financial) is given in Annexure 25 to this circular. 
 
4. The timeline for quarterly Integrated Filing shall be as follows: 
                                                           
72 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024. 
73 Expert Committee for facilitating ease of doing business and harmonization of the provisions of the ICDR and LODR Regulations.

[Page 53]
Page 53 of 291 
 
 
a.  Integrated Filing (Governance): within 30 days from the end of the quarter; 
b.  Integrated Filing (Financial): within 45 days from the end of the quarter, other than 
the last quarter, and 60 days from the end of the last quarter and the financial year. 
 
5. The following material events / information shall be disclosed on a quarterly basis in the 
format specified as part of the Integrated Filing (Governance): 
 
a.  Acquisition of shares or voting rights by listed e ntities in an unlisted company, 
aggregating to 5% or any subsequent change in holding exceeding 2% in terms of 
the provisions of Para A(1) of Part A of Schedule III of LODR. 
b.  Imposition of fine or penalty which are lower than the monetary thresholds specified 
under Para A(20) of Part A of Schedule III of LODR. 
c.  Updates on ongoing tax litigations or disputes in terms of the provisions of Para B(8) 
of Part A of Schedule III of LODR read with the corresponding  provisions of 
Annexure 18 of the Master Circular. 
6. In terms of the provisions of Regulation 23(2) of LODR, details of ratification of RPTs are 
required to be disclosed along with the half-yearly disclosures of RPTs. Accordingly, the 
value of ratified RPTs shall be disclosed in the format specified for disclosure of RPTs as 
part of the Integrated Filing (Financial) (refer Table D under the format for quarterly 
Integrated Filing (Financial) given in Annexure 1). 
 
Secretarial Auditor 
 
7. Clause (a) of regulation 24A(1A) of the LODR Regulations inter-alia states that a person 
shall be eligible for appointment as a Secretarial Auditor of the listed entity only if such 
person is a Peer Reviewed Company Secretary and has not incurred any of the 
disqualifications as specified by the Board. Accordingly, disqualifications for appointment 
or continuation of a Secretarial Auditor of the listed entity is given in  Annexure 26 of this 
circular. 
 
8. Further, as per regulation 24A(1B) of the LODR, a Secretarial Auditor appointed under 
the regulations shall provide to the listed entity only such other services as are approved 
by the board of directors but which shall not include any services as specified by SEBI in 
this behalf. Accordingly, the services that a Secretarial Auditor cannot render to the listed 
entity are specified in  Annexure 27 of this circular. 
 
9. The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) may bring the contents of this circular 
to the notice of all its members, including Practising Company Secretaries (PCS).

[Page 54]
Page 54 of 291 
 
 
Guidelines for disclosure of Employee Benefit Scheme related documents 
 
10. Regulation 46(2)(za) of the LODR requires listed entities to disclose Employee Benefit 
Scheme Documents, excluding commercial secrets and such other information that 
would affect competitive position, framed in terms of SEBI (SBEB) Regulations, 202174. 
Further, redaction of information from such documents shall be approved by the board of 
directors and shall be in compliance with guidelines as may be specified by SEBI. 
 
11. Listed entities shall, therefore, comply with the following requirements for disclosure of 
Employee Benefit Scheme Documents in terms of regulation 46(2)(za) of the LODR: 
a. The scheme document shall be uploaded on the website of the listed entity after 
obtaining shareholder approval as required under SEBI (SBEB) Regulations, 2021. 
b. The documents uploaded on the website shall mandatorily have minimum information 
to be disclosed to shareholders as per SEBI (SBEB) Regulations, 2021. 
c. The rationale for redacting information from the documents and the justification as to 
how such redacted information would affect competitive position or reveal commercial 
secrets of the listed entity shall be placed before the board of directors for 
consideration and approval. 
 
The secretarial compliance report issued by a Peer Reviewed Company Secretary under 
regulation 24A(2) of the LODR Regulations shall include a confirma tion on compliance 
with the aforesaid requirements by the listed entity. 
 
Single Filing System 
12. The facility of single filing by listed entities has already been put in place by BSE and 
NSE w.e.f. October 1, 2024, b eginning with the filing of statement on redressal of 
investor grievances under regulation 13(3) of the LODR Regulations and subsequently 
extended to corporate governance report under regulation 27(2), reconciliation of share 
capital audit report and disclosure of voting results under regulation 44(3). Details of 
other filings to be brought under the single filing system shall be communicated by Stock 
Exchanges from time to time. 
System driven disclosure of certain filings 
 
13. Stock Exchanges, in consultation with SEBI, shall specify the process, procedure 
and timelines for system driven disclosure of the following filing / disclosure 
requirements applicable to listed entities under the LODR Regulations: 
Sr. No. Regulation Filing 
1. Regulation 31(1)(b) of LODR Shareholding Pattern 
2. Regulation 30(6) r/w sub-para 3 
of para A of part A of schedule 
III of LODR 
New rating(s) or revision in ratings 
                                                           
74 SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021

[Page 55]
Page 55 of 291 
 
           
Changes to the Master Circular  
14. In order to give effect to certain recommendations of the Expert Committee, changes 
have been carried out to the provisions of the Master Circular. Major changes to the 
Master Circular include the following: 
a. The formats for corporate governance report, financial results, statement of 
deviation, RPT etc. have been deleted as relevant formats have been incorporated 
in Annexure 1 of this circular as part of the new Integrated Filing.  
b. Introduction of fines for no n-compliance with the timelines specified in regulation 
31A(3)(a) of the LODR for reclassification of promoter / promoter group entity as 
public.  
c. Changes to the provisions relating to Group Governance Unit in order to bring in 
clarity.  
d. Annexure 18A of the Master Circular on timelines for disclosure of material events / 
information shall stand substituted.] 
 
******

[Page 56]
Page 56 of 291 
 
 
 
CHAPTER VII: PENAL ACTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE 
 
Section VII-A:Non-compliance with certain provisions of the LODR Regulations and the 
Standard Operating Procedure for suspension and revocation of trading of specified 
securities75 
 
1. In exercise of powers under Section 11A(2) of the SEBI Act, 1992 read with Section 9 and 21 
of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and read with regulation 98 of the LODR 
Regulations, SEBI had issued a circular bearing reference number 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/12  dated January 22, 2020 specifying the uniform structure 
for imposing fines as a first resort for non -compliance with certain provisions of the LODR 
Regulations, freezing of entire shareholding of the promoter and promoter gro up and the 
standard operating procedure(“SOP”)  for suspension of trading in case the non -compliance 
is continuing and/or repetitive. 
 
2. Henceforth, the stock exchanges shall, having regard to the interests of investors and the 
securities market: 
 
2.1. Take actio n in case of non -compliances with the LODR Regulations as specified in 
paragraph6of this Section, and. 
 
2.2. Follow the SOP for suspension and revocation of suspension of trading of specified 
securities as specified in paragraphs7-10 of this Section. 
 
Stock Exchanges may deviate from the above, if found necessary, only after recording 
reasons in writing. 
 
3. In order to ensure effective enforcement of the LODR Regulations, the depositories, on receipt 
of intimation from the concerned recognized stock exchange, shall freeze or unfreeze, as the 
case may be, the entire shareholding of the promoter(s) in such non-compliant listed entity as 
well as all other securities held in the demat account of the promoter(s). Further, if a non -
compliant entity is listed on more t han one recognized stock exchange, the concerned 
recognized stock exchanges shall take uniform action under this Section in consultation with 
each other. 
 
4. The recognized stock exchanges shall also disclose on their website the action(s) taken 
against the listed entities for non -compliance(s), including the details of the respective 
regulatory requirement(s), amount of fines levied, the period of suspension, details regarding 
the freezing of shares, etc. on a quarterly basis.  
 
5. The recognized stock exchanges may keep in abeyance the action against any non-compliant 
entity or withdraw the action in certain cases where specific exemption from compliance with the 
requirements under the LODR Regulations/moratorium on enforcement proceedings has been 
provided for under any Act, Court/Tribunal Orders etc. 
 
                                                           
75SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/12 dated January 22, 2020, effective for the compliance periods ended on or 
after June 30, 2020.The SoP circular dated May 3, 2018 was in force till such time.

[Page 57]
Page 57 of 291 
 
 
 
6. The recognized stock exchanges shall take action for non -compliance with the provisions of 
the LODR Regulations and circulars / guidelines by a listed entity as under: 
 
6.1. Fines to be imposed for non-compliance: 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Regulation Fine payable and/or other action 
to be taken for non- compliance in 
respect of listed entity 
1.  Regulation 6(1) 
 
Non-compliance with requirement to appoint  a 
qualified company secretary as the compliance officer 
Rs. 1,000 per day 
2.  Regulation 7(1) 
 
Non-compliance with requirement to appoint share 
transfer agent 
Rs. 1,000 per day 
3.  Regulation 13(1)* 
 
Failure to ensure that adequate steps are taken for 
expeditious redressal of investor complaints 
 
*Fines would be imposed even during suspension 
period for non -compliance of regulation 13(1) the 
modalities of the same shall in in terms of SEBI 
Circular circular no. 
SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/P/CIR/2022/150 dated 
November 7, 2022. 
 
Rs.1,000 per day 
4.  Regulation 13(3) 
 
Non-submission of the statement on shareholder 
complaints within the period specified under this 
regulation or under any circular issued in respect of 
redressal of investor grievances 
Rs.1,000 per day 
5.  Regulation 17(1) 
 
Non-compliance with the requirements pertaining to 
the composition of the Board including failure to 
appoint woman director 
Rs. 5,000 per day

[Page 58]
Page 58 of 291 
 
6.  Regulation 17(1A) 
 
Non-compliance with the requirements pertaining to 
the appointment or continuation of Non -executive 
director who has attained the age of seventy five 
years 
 
Rs. 2,000 per day 
7.  Regulation 17(2) 
 
Non-compliance with the requirements pertaining to 
number of Board meetings. 
 
Rs. 10,000 per instance 
8.  Regulation 17(2A) 
 
Non-compliance with the requirements pertaining to 
quorum of Board meetings. 
 
Rs. 10,000 per instance 
9.  Regulation 18(1) 
 
Non-compliance with the constitution of audit 
committee 
Rs. 2,000 per day 
10.  Regulation 19(1)/ 19(2) 
 
Non-compliance with the constitution of nomination 
and remuneration committee 
Rs.  2,000 per day 
11.  Regulation 20(2) / (2A) 
 
Non-compliance with the constitution of 
stakeholder relationship committee 
Rs. 2,000 per day 
12.  Regulation 21(2) 
 
Non-compliance with the constitution of risk 
management committee 
Rs. 2,000 per day 
13.  Regulation 23(9) 
 
Non-compliance with the requirement to disclose 
related party transactions in the format as specified 
and within the prescribed timeline. 
Rs. 5,000 per day 
14.  Regulation 24A(2) 
 
Non-compliance with submission of secretarial 
compliance report 
Rs. 2,000 per day 
15.  Regulation 27(2) 
 
Non-submission of the Corporate governance 
compliance report within the period provided under 
this regulation 
Rs.  2,000 per day

[Page 59]
Page 59 of 291 
 
16.  Regulation 28(1) 
 
Non-compliance with obtaining in -principle 
approval of stock exchange(s) before issuance of 
securities. 
 
Rs.  50,000 per instance 
17.  Regulation 29(2)/29(3) 
 
Delay in furnishing prior intimation about the 
meeting of the board of directors 
Rs.  10,000 per instance of non - 
compliance per item 
18.  Regulation 31(1) 
 
Non-submission of shareholding pattern within the 
period specified 
Rs.  2,000 per day 
19.  76[Regulation 31A(3)(a)(ii) / (iii) /  (v) / (vii) 
 
Non-compliance with the requirements for 
reclassification of promoter / promoter group entity  
] 
 
Rs.  5,000 per day 
20.  Regulation 32(1) 
 
Non-submission of deviations/ variations in 
utilization  of issue proceeds 
Rs. 1,000 per day 
21.  Regulation 33 
 
Non-submission of the financial results within the 
period specified under this regulation 
 
(Levy of fine is in addition to the requirement of 
providing reasons for non -submission of the 
financial result as per chapter III of this circular) 
 
Rs. 5,000 per day 
22.  Regulation 34 
 
Non-submission of the Annual Report within the 
period specified under this regulation 
Rs.  2,000 per day 
23.  Regulation 42(2)/42(3)/ 42(4)/42(5) 
 
Delay in/ non -disclosure of record date/ dividend 
declaration or non - compliance with ensuring the 
specified time gap between two record dates/ book 
closure dates 
Rs. 10,000 per instance of non - 
compliance per item 
                                                           
76 Substituted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is incorporated in 
Section VI-L of this Master Circular. Before substitution it read as under: 
“Regulation 31A(3)(a) 
Non-compliance pertaining to delay in submission of reclassification application to stock exchanges”

[Page 60]
Page 60 of 291 
 
24.  Regulation 43A 
 
Non-disclosure of Dividend Distribution Policy in 
the Annual Report and on the website of the entity. 
 
Rs. 25,000 per instance  
25.  Regulation 44(3) 
 
Non-submission of the voting results within the 
period provided under this regulation 
Rs. 10,000 per instance of non - 
compliance 
26.  Regulation 44(5) 
 
Non-convening of annual general meeting within a 
period of five months from the close of financial 
year. 
 
Rs. 25,000 per instance of non - 
compliance 
27.  Regulation 46 
 
Non-compliance with norms pertaining 
to functional website 
Advisory/warning letter per instance 
of non-compliance per item 
 
Rs. 10,000 per instance for every 
additional advisory/warning letter 
exceeding the four advisory/ warning 
letters in a financial year 
 
6.2. Concerned recognized stock exchange(s) shall display on their website non-compliance by 
the listed entity and details of fine levied/ action taken. 
 
6.3. The amount of fine realized as per the above structure shall be credited to the "Investor 
Protection Fund" of the concerned recognized stock exchange. 
 
6.4. The fines specified above shall continue to accrue till the time of rectification of the non -
compliance to the satisfaction of the concerned recognized stock exchange or till the scrip 
of the listed entity is suspended from trading for non-compliance with aforesaid provisions77. 
Such accrual shall be irrespective of any other disciplinary/enforcement action(s) initiated 
by recognized stock exchange(s)/SEBI. 
 
6.5. Every recognized stock exchange shall review the compliance status of the listed entities 
and shall issue notices to the non-compliant listed entities within 30 days from the due date 
of submission of information. Non-compliant listed entity shall ensure compliance with the 
requirement(s) and pay fines as per this Section within 15 days from the date of such notice. 
If the non -compliant listed entity fails to comply with the aforesaid requirement(s) and/or 
pay fine levied within the stipulated period as per the notice stated above, the concerned 
recognized stock exchange(s) shall, upon expiry of the period indicated in the notice, shall 
issue notices to the promoter(s) of such non-compliant entities, to ensure compliance with 
the requirement(s) and pay fines within 10 days from the date of such notice. While issuing 
the aforementioned notices, the recognized stock ex change shall also send intimation to 
other recognized stock exchange(s) where the shares of the non-compliant entity are listed. 
 
                                                           
77 Fines would be imposed even during suspension period for non-compliance of regulation13(1)

[Page 61]
Page 61 of 291 
 
6.6. The concerned recognized stock exchange(s) shall, upon expiry of the stipulated periods 
indicated in the aforementioned notice s, forthwith intimate the depositories to freeze the 
entire shareholding of the promoter(s) in such entity as well as all other securities held in 
the demat accounts, if the non -compliant listed entity fails to comply with the aforesaid 
requirement(s) and/or pay fine levied. The depository(ies) shall immediately freeze such 
demat accounts and also intimate the promoter(s) about the details of non -compliances 
resulting in freezing of their demat accounts. 
 
6.7. If the non-compliant listed entity subsequently complies with the respective requirement(s) 
and pays the fine levied, in terms of this Section, the concerned recognized stock 
exchange(s) shall display on their website details of compliance and fines paid by the listed 
entity. Simultaneously, the recognized stock exchange(s) shall intimate the depositories to 
unfreeze the entire shareholding of the promoter(s) in such entity as well as all other 
securities held in the demat account of the promoter(s), immediately from the date of 
compliance. 
 
6.8. If any non-compliant listed entity fails to pay the fine despite receipt of the notice as stated 
above, the recognized stock exchange(s) may also initiate appropriate enforcement action. 
 
6.9. The recognised stock exchange(s) shall also advise the non -compliant listed entity t o 
ensure that the subject matter of non -compliance which has been identified and indicated 
by the recognised stock exchange(s) and any subsequent action taken by the recognised 
stock exchange(s) in this regard shall be placed before the Board of Directors of the 
company in its next meeting. Comments made by the board shall be duly informed to the 
recognised stock exchange(s) for dissemination. 
 
7. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP): The standard operating procedure is as given below: 
 
7.1. If a listed entity is non -compliant with the provisions of the LODR Regulations as specified 
under paragraph 7.4 below, the concerned recognized stock exchange(s) shall: 
7.1.1. move the scrip of the listed entity to "Z" category wherein trades shall take place on 
'Trade for Trade' basis by following procedure specified at paragraph 8 below and 
7.1.2. suspend trading in the shares of such listed entity by following procedure specified at 
paragraph 9 below. 
 
7.2. If a listed entity rectifies non-compliance with the provisions of the LODR Regulations, the stock 
exchanges shall neither move the listed entity to “Z” category nor suspend trading in the shares 
of such listed entity. However, the entire shareholding of the promoter(s) in the non-compliant 
listed entity as well as all other securities held in the demat account(s) of the promoter(s) shall 
remain frozen till the non -compliant listed entity complies with respective requirement(s) and 
pays the applicable fines. 
 
7.3. In cases, where the non -compliant listed entity complies with the respective requirement(s) 
and pays the applicable fine, the recognized stock exchange(s) shall intimate the depositories 
to unfreeze the entire shareholding of the pr omoter(s) in such entity as well as all other 
securities held in the demat account of the promoter(s), immediately from the date of 
compliance.

[Page 62]
Page 62 of 291 
 
7.4. Criteria for suspension of the trading in the shares of the listed entities: 
7.4.1. Failure to comply with regulation  17(1) with respect to board composition including 
appointment of woman director for two consecutive quarters; 
7.4.2. Failure to comply with regulation 18(1) with respect to constitution of audit committee for 
two consecutive quarters; 
7.4.3. failure to comply with regulation 27(2) with respect to submission of corporate governance 
compliance report for two consecutive quarters; 
7.4.4. failure to comply with regulation 31(1) with respect to submission of shareholding pattern 
for two consecutive quarters; 
7.4.5. failure to comply with regulation 33 with respect to submission of financial results for two 
consecutive quarters; 
7.4.6. failure to comply with regulation 34 with respect to submission of Annual Report for two 
consecutive financial years; 
7.4.7. failure to submit information on the reconcili ation of shares and capital audit report, for 
two consecutive quarters; 
7.4.8. receipt of the notice of suspension of trading of that entity by any other recognized stock 
exchange on any or all of the above grounds. 
 
7.5. For the purpose of paragraph 7.4 above, it is clarified that non-compliance for two consecutive 
quarters of regulations 17(1) and 18(1) refers to two complete consecutive quarters (180 days) 
of non-compliance. 
 
7.6. If the non-compliant listed entity complies with the aforesaid requirement(s) after  the date of 
suspension and pays the applicable fine, the recognized stock exchange(s) shall revoke the 
suspension of trading of its shares by following the procedure specified at paragraph 10 below. 
 
7.7. If the non-compliant listed entity fails to comply with the aforesaid requirement(s) or fails to pay 
the applicable fine within 6 months from the date of suspension, the recognized stock 
exchange(s) shall initiate the process of compulsory delisting of the non-compliant listed entity 
in accordance with the pro visions of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 as amended from time to time. 
 
8. Standard operating procedure for moving the scrip to "Z" Category 
 
8.1. If a listed entity defaults in complying with the provisions of the LODR Regulations as specified 
under paragraph 7.4 above, in terms of this section, the concerned recognised stock 
exchange(s) shall, in addition to imposing fine under paragraph 6 above, move the scrip of the 
listed entity to "Z" category wherein trades shall take place on 'Trade for Trade' basis. However, 
before moving the scrip to “Z ” category, the concerned recognized stock exchange(s) shall 
send written intimation to the non -compliant listed entity calling upon it to comply with 
respective requirement(s) within 7 days of the date of the intimation. 
 
8.2. Simultaneously, the recognized st ock exchange(s) shall give 10 days prior public notice to 
investors before moving the scrip to "Z" category or while moving the scrip out of "Z" category. 
While issuing the notice, the recognized stock exchange(s) shall intimate the other recognized 
stock exchange(s) where the shares of the non-compliant entity are listed.

[Page 63]
Page 63 of 291 
 
8.3. If the non -compliant listed entity complies with respective requirement(s) two working days 
before the proposed date of movement of the scrip to “Z” category, the scrip shall not be moved 
to “Z” category and the concerned recognized stock exchange(s) shall give a public notice on 
its website informing compliance by the listed entity. While issuing the said notice, the 
recognized stock exchange(s) shall send intimation of notice to other recognized stock 
exchange(s) where the shares of the entity are listed 
 
8.4. The recognised stock exchange(s) shall move back the scrip of the listed entity from "Z" 
category to the normal trading category (if not suspended as specified in paragraph 9 below), 
provided it complies with respective provisions of the LODR Regulations and pays the fine 
imposed as stated above. While moving the scrip back to normal trading category the 
recognized stock exchange(s) shall intimate the other recognized stock exchange(s) where the 
shares of the non-compliant entity are listed. 
 
9. Standard operating procedure for suspending the trading 
 
9.1. If a listed entity complies with respective provisions of the LODR Regulations, no suspension 
proceedings would be initiated. However, before suspending the trading of a scrip, the 
concerned recognized stock exchange(s) shall send written intimation to the non -compliant 
listed entity calling upon it to comply with respective requirement(s) and pay the applicable fine 
within 21 days of the date of the intimation. While issuing the said intimation, the recognized 
stock exchange(s) shall also inform other recognized stock exchange(s) where the shares of 
the non-compliant entity are listed to ensure that the date of suspension is uniform across all 
the recognised stock exchange(s). Simultaneously, the recognized stock exchange(s) shall 
give a public notice on its website proposing possible suspension of trading in the shares o f 
the non-compliant listed entity 30 days prior to date of suspension. 
 
9.2. If the non -compliant listed entity complies with respective requirement(s) two working days 
before the proposed date of suspension, the trading in its shares shall not be suspended and  
the concerned recognized stock exchange(s) shall give a public notice on its website informing 
compliance by the listed entity. While issuing the said notice, the recognized stock exchange(s) 
shall send intimation of notice to other recognized stock exchange(s) where the shares of the 
entity are listed. 
 
9.3. In case of failure to comply with respective requirement(s), the recognized stock exchange(s) 
shall suspend the trading in the shares of a non-compliant listed entity. The entire shareholding 
of the promoter(s) in the non -compliant listed entity as well as all other securities held in the 
demat account(s) of the promoter(s) shall remain frozen during the period of suspension. 
 
9.4. While suspending trading in the shares of the non -compliant entity, the recognize d stock 
exchange(s) shall send intimation of suspension to other recognized stock exchange(s) where 
the shares of the non-compliant entity are listed to ensure that the date of suspension is uniform 
across all the recognised stock exchange(s). 
 
9.5. After 15 days of suspension, trading in the shares of non -compliant entity may be allowed on 
'Trade for Trade' basis, on the first trading day of every week for 6 months from the date of 
suspension. In this regard, the recognized stock exchange(s) shall give instruction to its trading 
members to obtain confirmation from clients before accepting an order for purchase of shares 
of the non-compliant listed entity on 'Trade for Trade' basis.

[Page 64]
Page 64 of 291 
 
 
9.6. The recognized stock exchange(s) shall put in place a system to publish a cautio n message 
on its trading terminals, as follows: "Trading in shares of the <Name of the Listed Entity> is 
presently under 'suspension and trade to trade basis' and trading shall stop completely and 
compulsory delisting may be initiated if <Name of the Listed Entity> does not become compliant 
by <Date> ". 
 
10. Standard operating procedure for revocation of suspension of trading. 
 
10.1. If the non -compliant listed entity complies with the aforesaid requirement(s) after trading is 
suspended in the shares of the non-compliant entity, the recognized stock exchange(s) shall, 
on the date of compliance, give a public notice on its website informing compliance by the listed 
entity. The recognized stock exchange(s) shall revoke the suspension of trading of its shares 
after a period of 7 days from the date of such notice. While issuing the said notice, the 
recognized stock exchange(s) shall send intimation of the notice to other recognized stock 
exchange(s) where the shares of the entity are listed. After revocation of su spension, the 
trading of shares shall be permitted only in 'Trade for Trade' basis for a period of 7 days from 
the date of revocation and thereafter, trading in the shares of the entity shall be shifted back to 
the normal trading category. 
 
11. The above provisions of this Section are without prejudice to the power of SEBI to take appropriate 
action(s) under the securities laws. 
 
*****

[Page 65]
Page 65 of 291 
 
 
Section VII-B:Non-compliance with the Minimum Public Shareholding requirements78 
 
1. Regulation 38 of the LODR Regulations mandates a listed entity to comply with the Minimum 
Public Shareholding(“MPS”) requirements specified in rules 19(2) and 19A of the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time. 
 
2. In terms of sub regulation (1) of regulation 97 of the LODR Regulations, recognized Stock 
Exchanges are mandated to monitor compliance by listed entities with the provisions of the 
LODR Regulations. 
 
3. Sub regulations (1) and (2) of regulation 98 of LODR Regulations inter-alia specify the liability 
of a listed entity or any other person for contravention and action which can be taken by the 
respective recognized stock exchange and the revocation of such action, in the manner 
specified by the Board. 
 
4. In order to maintain consistency and uniformity of approach in the enforcement of MPS norms 
mandated under regulation 38 of the LODR Regulations, the below mentioned procedure shall 
be followed by the recognised stock exchanges/depositories, as applicable, with resp ect to 
non-compliant listed entities, their promoters and directors: 
 
4.1. The recognized stock exchanges shall review compliance with MPS requirements based 
on shareholding pattern/ other filings made with them by the listed entities on a quarterly 
basis within 30 days from the due date for submission of information. On observing non-
compliance with MPS requirements , the stock exchanges shall issue notices to such 
entities intimating all actions taken/ being taken as per this section and advise the entities 
to ensure compliance. 
 
4.2. On observing non-compliance: 
 
4.2.1. The recognized stock exchange shall impose a fine of ₹5,000/ - per day of non-
compliance on the listed entity and such fine shall continue to be imposed till the 
date of compliance by such listed entity. 
 
4.2.2. The recognized stock exchange shall intimate the depositories to freeze the 
entire shareholding of the promoter and promoter group in such listed entity till 
the date of compliance by such entity. The above restriction shall not be an 
impediment for the entity for compliance with the minimum public shareholding 
norms through the methods specified/approved by SEBI. 
 
4.2.3. The promoters, promoter group and directors of the listed entity shall not hold 
any new position as director in any other listed entity till  the date of compliance 
by such entity. An intimation to this effect shall be provided to the listed entity by 
the recognized stock exchange and the listed entity shall subsequently intimate 
the same to its promoters, promoter group and directors. 
 
 
                                                           
78CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/115 dated October 10, 2017.

[Page 66]
Page 66 of 291 
 
4.3. In cases where the listed entity continues to be non -compliant for a period more 
than one year: 
 
4.3.1. The recognized stock exchange shall impose an increased fine of ₹10,000/- per 
day of non -compliance on the listed entity and such fine shall continue to be 
imposed till the date of compliance by such listed entity. 
 
4.3.2. The recognized stock exchange shall intimate the depositories to freeze all the 
securities held in the Demat account of the promoter and promoter group till the 
date of compliance by such entity. The above restriction shall not be an 
impediment for the entity with respect to compliance with the minimum public 
shareholding norms through the methods specified/approved by SEBI. 
 
4.3.3. Direction as per paragraph 4.2.3 above shall continue till the date of compliance 
by such entity. 
 
5. The recognized stock exchange may also consider compulsory delisting of the non-compliant 
listed entity in accordance with the provisions of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 
1956, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 and the Securiti es and Exchange 
Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 as amended from time to time. 
 
6. The recognized stock exchanges may keep in abeyance the action or withdraw the action in 
specific cases where specific exemption from compliance with MPS requirements   under   the   
LODR   Regulations/   moratorium on enforcement proceedings has been provided under 
any Act, Court/Tribunal Orders etc. 
 
7. In case it is observed that the listed entity has adopted a method for complying with MPS 
requirements which is not specified by SEBI under section VI-A of chapter VI of this circular 
and approval for the same has not been obtained from SEBI in terms of the said chapter, the 
recognized stock exchanges shall refer such cases to SEBI. 
 
8. With respect to the fines as stated above: 
8.1. The amount of fine realized as per the above structure shall be credited to the "Investor 
Protection Fund" of the concerned recognized stock exchange. 
8.2. If any non -compliant listed entity fails to pay the fine despite receipt of the n otice as 
stated above, the recognized stock exchange may initiate appropriate action. 
 
9. Upon intimation of compliance by the listed entity with the MPS requirements, the concerned 
recognized stock exchange shall, on being satisfied of such compliance: 
 
9.1. intimate the depositories to unfreeze the shares and other securities of the promoter and 
promoter group of the listed entity. 
9.2. intimate the listed entity that directions imposed in terms of para 4.2.3 above shall not 
continue and the listed entity shall su bsequently intimate the same to its promoters, 
promoter group and directors. 
9.3. disseminate the information in its website regarding the compliance achieved by the 
listed entity.

[Page 67]
Page 67 of 291 
 
 
10. The recognized stock exchanges shall disclose the following on their website on a quarterly 
basis – 
10.1. Names of non-compliant entities, amount of fine imposed, freezing of shares held by the 
promoters and promoter group and other actions taken against the entity; 
10.2. Status of compliance including details regarding fine paid by the entity. 
 
11. The recognized stock exchanges may, having regard to the interests of investors and the 
securities market, take appropriate action in line with the principles and procedures laid down 
in this section. Any deviation, therefore, should not dilute the spirit of the policy contained 
herein and may be made on reasonable grounds to be recorded in writing. 
 
12. In order to ensure effective enforcement of the LODR Regulations, the depositories, on receipt 
of intimation from concerned recognized stock exchange shall immediately freeze or unfreeze 
the shareholding of the promoter and promoter group in such entity and the other securities 
held by them, as applicable. 
 
13. The actions specified in this Section are without prejudice to the power of SEBI to take action 
under the securities laws for violation of the MPS requirements. 
 
******

[Page 68]
Page 68 of 291 
 
LIST OF ANNEXURES TO THE MASTER CIRCULAR  
Annexure 
No. 
Subject Page 
Number 
1.  Format of Uniform Listing Agreement 70-72 
2.  Format of disclosure of shareholding pattern of a listed entity 73-85 
3.  Format for Compliance Report on Corporate Governance to be 
submitted by a listed entity on a quarterly basis 
86 
4.  Format for Compliance Report on Corporate Governance to be 
submitted by a listed entity at the end of the financial year (for the whole 
of financial year) 
87 
5.  Format for Compliance Report on Corporate Governance to be 
submitted by a listed entity at the end of 6 months after  close of the 
financial year along-with second quarter report of the next financial year 
88 
6.  Format for disclosure of loans / guarantees / comfort letters / securities 
etc. to be submitted twice a year, on a half yearly basis , by the listed 
entity at the end of every 6 months of the financial year 
89 
7.  Format for holding pattern of IDRs 90 
8.  Procedure for two-way fungibility of IDRs 91-93 
9.  Format for financial results published in the newspapers 94 
10.  Procedure for limited review of the audit of all the entities / companies 
whose accounts are to be consolidated with the listed entity 
95-100 
11.  Formats for limited review reports / audit reports 101-136 
12.  Statement on Impact of audit qualifications (for audit report with 
modified opinion) submitted along-with annual audited financial results 
137 
13.  Format for disclosure of Related Party Transactions 138 
13A. Minimum information to the Audit Committee for approval of Related 
Party Transactions 
139-140 
14.  Statement  on  Deviation  or  Variation  for  proceeds  of  public issue, 
rights issue, preferential issue, Qualified Institutions Placement etc. 
141 
15.  Format for the annual secretarial compliance report 142-145 
16.  Format of the BRSR 146-184 
17.  Guidance note for BRSR 185-212 
     17A. Format of BRSR Core 213-220 
18.  Details to be provided while disclosing events given in Part A of 
Schedule III of the LODR Regulations 
221-235 
     18A. Timeline for disclosing events given in  Part A of Schedule III of the 
LODR Regulations 
236-242 
19.  Guidance on when an event / Information can be said to have occurred 
for disclosures under regulation 30 of the LODR Regulations 
243 
     19A. Guidance on the criteria for determination of materiality of events/ 
information  
244 
    19AA. Framework for considering unaffected Price  245-247 
20.  Format for disclosure of divergence in Asset Classification and 
provisioning for NPAs 
248

[Page 69]
Page 69 of 291 
 
21.  Format for information to be obtained from the Statutory Auditor upon 
resignation 
249 
22.  Format for submission of voting results 250-251 
23.  Guidance Note on Board Evaluation 252-261 
24.  Format for disclosure of commodity risks by listed entities 262 
25.  Format for quarterly Integrated Filing 263-281 
26.  Disqualifications for a Secretarial Auditor 282-283 
27.  Services not to be rendered by the Secretarial Auditor 284

[Page 70]
Page 70 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 1 
Format of Uniform Listing Agreement 
This Agreement is made on this ................... day of ................... ................... by ................... a 
Company / any other entity duly formed and registered under the relevant Indian Act / statutory 
enactment of appropriate jurisdiction, including overseas jurisdiction, wherever applicable, and having  
its  registered  office  at ..................................... .......................................................(her einafter called 
“the Issuer”) with the  ................... (Name of the Stock Exchange) (Hereinafter called “the Exchange”). 
WHERE AS:- 
a. It is a requirement of the Exchange that the Issuer shall submit a listing agreement duly executed 
along with an application for admission and continued admission of the securities to dealings on 
the Exchange.  
b. *The Issuer is desirous of continuing the listing of its securities on the Exchange.  
 (or) 
The issuer is desirous of listing its securities as mentioned in the application and made part 
hereof. 
c. The Issuer is desirous of executing this Agreement in compliance with the aforesaid requirement 
of the Exchange. 
NOW THEREFORE in consideration of the aforesaid, the Issuer hereby covenants and agrees with the 
Exchange as follows: 
1. That the Issuer shall comply with the extant provisions of all the applicable statutory enactments 
governing the issuance, listing and continued listing of securities. 
2. That without prejudice to the above clause, the Issuer hereby covenants and agrees that it shall 
comply with the following:– 
i. the SEBI (Listing O bligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and other 
applicable regulations /guidelines/circulars as may be issued by SEBI from time to time. 
ii. the relevant byelaws / regulations / circulars / notices / guidelines as may be issued by the 
Exchange from time to time. 
iii. such other directions, requirements and conditions as may be imposed by SEBI / Exchange 
from time to time. 
3. That it shall pay listing and such other fees / fines as may be specified / levied by the Exchange 
from time to time within the prescribed period. 
4. That it shall keep intimated the Exchange about change in any information/ details of the issuer. 
5. The admission and continued admission of the securities to dealings on the Exchange is subject 
to the discretion of the Exchange and subject to the powers of the Exchange to prohibit, suspend 
or withdraw the listing of the securities on the Exchange. 
 
6. * That the board of directors or a committee duly authorized by the board of directors of the issuer 
has passed a resolution for initial listing of the securities on the Exchange at its meeting held on 
the ................... day of ........................ 20..........

[Page 71]
Page 71 of 291 
 
7. * Both parties agree that earlier listing agreement stands rescinded and novation carried out in 
accordance with respecti ve regulations shall not affect any right already accrued or liability 
incurred by either party nor effect any enquiry or investigation or any other action undertaken by 
the Exchange or SEBI.   
(* if applicable) 
 
This Agreement is duly executed on the day, month and year first mentioned above by the 
authorized signatories duly authorized by the board of directors or committee thereof in their 
................... meeting held on ................... (date). 
 
SIGNED AND DELIVERED by the within named        ) 
........................ (Name of the Issuer)              ) 
Through its Authorised Signatories                         ) 
 
Name(s):      ) 
Designation(s):                 ) 
 
 
 
SIGNED by the authorized signatory of Stock Exchange ) 
 
Name:        ) 
Designation:       ) 
 
 
 
 
*Note: Stock Exchange may strike off whichever is not applicable

[Page 72]
Page 72 of 291 
 
Information about the Company and Securities 
Name of Issuer:  
CIN No.  
GST No.  
Registered office Address  
 
Corporate office Address  
 
Telephone No.  Fax No.  
Website address  e-mail id  
 
Name of the Company Secretary/ 
Compliance officer 
 
Telephone no.  Fax 
No. 
 
e-mail id  
 
 
 
 
 
Securities applied for listing 
(Please tick (√ ) the appropriate 
boxes) 
Specified securities (Main Board)  
Specified securities (SME Exchange)  
Specified securities (Innovators Growth Platform)  
Non-convertible debt securities  
Non-convertible redeemable preference shares  
Perpetual debt instrument  
Perpetual non-cumulative preference shares  
Indian depository receipts  
Securitized debt instruments  
Units issued by Mutual Funds  
Others (Please specify)

[Page 73]
Page 73 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 2 
Format of disclosure of shareholding pattern of a listed entity 
 
1. Name of Listed Entity:  
2. Scrip Code/Name of Scrip/Class of Security  
3. Share Holding Pattern Filed under: Reg. 31(1)(a)/Reg. 31(1)(b)/Reg.31(1)(c)  
a. If under 31(1)(b) then indicate the report for Quarter ending  
b. If under 31(1)(c) then indicate date of allotment/extinguishment   
 
4. Declaration: The Listed entity is required to submit the following declaration to the extent of 
submission of information:-   
 
 Particulars  Yes*  No*  
1  Whether the Listed Entity has issued any partly paid up shares?    
2  Whether the Listed Entity has issued any Convertible Securities or Warrants?    
3  Whether the Listed Entity has any shares against which depository receipts are issued?    
4  Whether the Listed Entity has any shares in locked-in?    
5  Whether any shares held by promoters are pledged or otherwise encumbered?    
 
* If the Listed Entity selects the option ‘No’ for the questions above, the columns for the partly paid 
up shares, Outstanding Convertible Securities/Warrants, depository receipts, locked-in shares, no. 
of shares pledged or otherwise encumbered by promoters, as applicable, shall not be displayed at 
the time of dissemination on the Stock Exchange website. Also wherever there is ‘No’ declared by 
Listed Entity in above table the values will be considered as ‘Zero’ by default on submission of the 
format of holding of specified securities.   
 
5. The tabular format for disclosure of holding of specified securities is as follows:-

[Page 74]
Page 74 of 291 
 
 
 
[Table I - Summary Statement showing holding of specified securities of the listed entity79 
 
Category 
(I) 
Category of 
shareholder 
 
(II) 
No. of 
shareh
older  
(III) 
No. of 
fully 
paid 
up 
equity 
shares 
held  
(IV) 
Partly 
paid-
up 
equity 
shares 
held  
(V) 
No. of 
shares 
underlyi
ng 
Deposit
ory 
Receipts  
(VI) 
Total 
no. 
shares 
held   
(VII) = 
(IV)+(V)
+(VI) 
Shareholdi
ng as a % 
of total no. 
of shares 
(calculated 
as per 
SCRR, 
1957) 
As a % of 
(A+B+C2)  
(VIII) 
Number of Voting Rights 
held in each class of 
securities  
(IX) 
No. of 
Shares 
Underly
ing 
Outstan
ding 
converti
ble 
securiti
es 
(includi
ng 
Warrant
s, ESOP 
etc.)  
(X) 
Total No of 
shares on 
fully 
diluted 
basis 
(including 
warrants, 
ESOP, 
Convertibl
e 
Securities 
etc.) 
(XI)=(VII+X) 
Shareholdi
ng, as a % 
assuming 
full 
conversion 
of      
convertible 
securities 
(as a 
percentage 
of diluted 
share 
capital)  
(XII) = 
(VII)+(X) 
As a 
% of 
(A+B+C2) 
 
Number of 
Locked in 
shares  
(XIII) 
Number of 
Shares 
pledged  
(XIV) 
Non-
Disposal 
Undertaking 
(XV) 
Other 
encumbrances, 
if any 
(XVI)  
Total Number 
of Shares 
encumbered 
(XVII) = 
(XIV+XV+XVI) 
 
Number of 
equity shares 
held in 
dematerialized 
form  
(XVIII) 
No of Voting Rights Total 
as a  
% of  
(A+B
+C)  
 
Class 
eg: X 
Class 
eg: Y 
To
tal 
No.  
(a) 
As a 
% of 
total 
Share
s held  
(b) 
No. 
(a) 
As a 
% of 
total 
share
s 
held 
(b) 
No
. 
(a) 
As a 
% of 
total 
shar
es 
held 
(b) 
No
. 
(a) 
As a % 
of total 
shares 
held 
(b) 
N
o
. 
(
a
) 
As a % 
of total 
shares 
held (b) 
(A) Promoter & 
Promoter 
Group 
           
 
   
     
(B) Public 
           
 
  
NA    
(C) Non 
Promoter- 
Non Public 
           
 
  
NA    
(C1) Shares 
underlying 
DRs 
     
NA  
     
 
  
NA    
(C2) Shares held 
by Employee 
Trusts 
              NA   
 
Total 
           
 
   
  
  
                                                           
79 Substituted with Annexure A of the SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/35 dated March 20, 2025, came into force with effect from the quarter ending June 30, 2025. For text of Annexure 2 prior to substitution, 
user may refer Master Circular dated November 11, 2024 available on the SEBI Website.

[Page 75]
Page 75 of 291 
 
Table II - Statement showing holding of specified securities by the Promoter and Promoter Group 
 
  Category & 
Name of the 
Shareholders 
(I) 
Entity 
type 
 
Promoter 
or 
Promoter 
group  
 
(Promoter 
group 
would 
exclude 
promoter
s) 
 
(II) 
PAN  
(III) 
No. of 
share
holder  
(IV) 
No. of 
fully 
paid 
up 
equity 
shares 
held  
(V) 
Partly 
paid-
up 
equit
y 
share
s 
held  
(VI) 
No. of 
shares 
underlyin
g 
Depositor
y 
Receipts  
(VII) 
Total 
no. 
shares 
held   
(VIII = 
V+VI+
VII) 
Sharehold
ing % 
calculate 
d as per 
SCRR, 
1957 
As a % of 
(A+B+C2)  
(IX) 
Number of Voting Rights 
held in each class of 
securities  
(X) 
No. of 
Shares 
Underlyin
g 
Outstandi
ng 
convertib
le 
securities 
(includin
g 
Warrants, 
ESOP 
etc.)  
(XI) 
Total No of 
shares on 
fully 
diluted 
basis 
(including 
warrants, 
ESOP, 
Convertibl
e 
Securities 
etc.) 
(XII)=(VIII+
XI) 
Total 
shareholdi
ng, as a % 
assuming 
full 
conversio
n of      
convertibl
e 
securities 
(as a 
percentag
e of 
diluted 
share 
capital)  
(XIII) = 
(VIII)+(XI) 
as a 
% of 
A+B+C2 
 
Number of 
Locked in 
shares  
(XIV) 
Number of 
Shares 
pledged  
(XV) 
Non-
Disposal 
Undertakin
g (XVI) 
Other 
encumbra
nces, if 
any  
(XVII) 
 
Total Number of 
Shares 
encumbered 
(XVIII) = 
(XV+XVI+XVII) 
 
Number 
of equity 
shares 
held in 
demateri
alized 
form  
(XIX) No of Voting 
Rights 
Total 
as a 
% of 
Total 
Votin
g 
right
s 
Clas
s X 
Clas
s Y 
Tota
l 
No.  
(a) 
As a 
% of 
total 
Share
s held  
(b) 
No. 
(a) 
As a 
% of 
total 
share
s 
held 
(b) 
N
o
. 
(
a
) 
As a 
% of 
total 
shar
es 
held 
(b) 
N
o. 
(a
) 
As 
a 
% 
of 
tot
al 
sh
ar
es 
he
ld 
(b) 
No
. 
(a) 
As a % of 
total 
shares 
held (b) 
(1)  Indian                                         
(a)  Individuals/H
indu 
undivided 
Family  
                                       
 
Name 
(xyz…)  
                                
 
     
(b)  Central  
Government/ 
State  
Government(
s)  
                                
 
     
 Name 
(xyz…)  
                      
(c)  Financial  
Institutions/ 
Banks   
                                
 
     
 
Name 
(xyz…)  
                                
 
     
(d)  Any Other 
(specify)  
                      
 
Name 
(xyz…)  
                                
 
     
 Sub-Total 
(A)(1)

[Page 76]
Page 76 of 291 
 
(2)  Foreign                         
(a)  Individuals 
(Non-
Resident  
Individuals/  
Foreign  
Individuals)  
                      
 Name 
(xyz…)  
                      
(b)  Government                        
 Name 
(xyz…)  
                      
(c)  Institutions                           
 Name 
(xyz…)  
                      
(d)  Foreign 
Portfolio 
Investors  
                      
 Name 
(xyz…)  
                      
(e)  Any Other  
(specify)  
                      
 Name 
(xyz…)  
                      
 Sub-Total 
(A)(2) 
                      
 Total 
Shareholdin
g of 
Promoter 
and 
Promoter 
Group 
(A)= 
(A)(1)+(A)(2) 
                      
 Details of Shares which remain unclaimed may be given here along with details such as number of shareholders, outstanding sha res held in demat/unclaimed suspense account, voting rights which are frozen etc.  
 Note:   
1) PAN would not be displayed on website of Stock Exchange(s).  
2) The term “Encumbrance” has the same meaning as assigned under SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulati ons, 2011, as amended from time to time. 
3) 80[This table consists the details of promoter and promoter group with shareholding “NIL”.] 
                                                           
80 Substituted for “Details of promoter and promoter group with shareholding “NIL” can be accessed from here” for clarification.

[Page 77]
Page 77 of 291 
 
Table III - Statement showing holding of specified securities by the Public shareholders 
 
Category & 
Name of the 
Shareholders 
 
(I) 
PAN  
 
(II) 
No. of 
shareh
older  
 
(III) 
No. of 
fully 
paid up 
equity 
shares 
held  
 
(IV) 
Partly 
paid-up 
equity 
shares 
held  
 
(V) 
No. of 
shares 
underly
ing 
Deposit
ory 
Receipt
s  
 
(VI) 
Total 
no. 
shares 
held   
 
(VII 
=IV+V+
VI) 
Shareholdi
ng % 
calculated 
as per 
SCRR, 
1957 
As a % of 
(A+B+C2)  
 
(VIII) 
Number of Voting Rights 
held in each class of 
securities  
(IX) 
No. of 
Shares 
Underlyi
ng 
Outstand
ing 
converti
ble 
securitie
s 
(includin
g 
Warrants
, ESOP 
etc.)  
 
(X) 
Total No 
of 
shares 
on fully 
diluted 
basis 
(includin
g 
warrants
, ESOP, 
Converti
ble 
Securitie
s etc.) 
(XI)=(VII+
X) 
Total 
sharehold
ing, as a 
% 
assuming 
full   
conversio
n of      
convertibl
e 
securities 
(as a 
percentag
e of 
diluted 
share 
capital) 
 
(XII) 
Number of 
Locked in 
shares  
 
(XIII) 
Number of 
Shares 
pledged  
 
(XIV) 
Non-
Disposal 
Undertak
ing (XV) 
Other 
encumbr
ances, if 
any  
(XVI) 
 
Total 
Number of 
Shares 
encumbere
d (XVII) = 
(XIV+XV+X
VI) 
 
Number of 
equity shares 
held in 
dematerialize
d form  
 
(XVIII) 
Sub-categorization of 
shares  
 
(XIX) 
No of Voting 
Rights 
Total 
as a 
% of 
Total 
Votin
g 
right
s 
Shareholding (No. of 
shares) under 
Cla
ss 
X 
Cl
as
s 
Y 
To
tal 
No
.  
(a) 
As a 
% of 
total 
Shar
es 
held  
(b) 
No
. 
(a) 
As a 
% of 
total 
shar
es 
held  
(b) 
N
o. 
(a
) 
A
s 
a 
% 
o
f 
t
o
t
a
l 
s
h
a
r
e
s 
h
e
l
d 
(
b
) 
N
o
. 
(
a
) 
As 
a 
% 
of 
tot
al 
sh
ar
es 
hel
d 
(b) 
N
o
. 
(
a
) 
As a 
% of 
total 
shar
es 
held 
(b) 
Sub-
cate
gory  
 
(i) 
Sub-
cate
gory  
 
(ii) 
Sub-
cate
gory  
 
(iii) 
(1) Institutions 
(Domestic) 
                               NA         
(a) Mutual Funds                                NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(b) Venture Capital 
Funds 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(c) Alternate 
Investment 
Funds 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(d) Banks                                NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(e) Insurance 
Companies 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(f) Provident / 
Pension Funds 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA

[Page 78]
Page 78 of 291 
 
(g) Asset 
Reconstruction 
Companies 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(h) Sovereign 
Wealth Funds 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(i) NBFCs 
registered with 
RBI 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(j) Other Financial 
Institutions 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(k) Any Other 
(specify) 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
  Sub-Total B(1)                                NA         
(2) Institutions 
(Foreign) 
                               NA         
(a) Foreign Direct 
Investment 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(b) Foreign 
Venture Capital 
Investors 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(c) Sovereign 
Wealth Funds 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(d) Foreign 
Portfolio 
Investors 
Category I 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(e) Foreign 
Portfolio 
Investors 
Category II 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(f) Overseas 
Depositories 
(holding DRs) 
(balancing 
figure) 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(g) Any Other 
(specify) 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA

[Page 79]
Page 79 of 291 
 
  Sub-Total B(2)                                NA         
(3) Central 
Government / 
State 
Government(s
) 
                               NA         
(a) Central 
Government / 
President of 
India 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(b) State 
Government / 
Governor 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(c) Shareholding 
by Companies 
or Bodies 
Corporate 
where Central / 
State 
Government is 
a promoter 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
  Sub-Total B(3)                                NA         
(4) Non-
institutions 
                               NA         
(a) Associate 
companies / 
Subsidiaries 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(b) Directors and 
their relatives 
(excluding 
independent 
directors and 
nominee 
directors) 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(c) Key Managerial 
Personnel 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(d) Relatives of 
promoters 
(other than 
‘immediate 
relatives’ of 
promoters 
disclosed under 
‘Promoter and 
Promoter 
Group’ 
category) 
                               NA

[Page 80]
Page 80 of 291 
 
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(e) Trusts where 
any person 
belonging to 
'Promoter and 
Promoter 
Group' 
category is 
'trustee', 
'beneficiary', or 
'author of the 
trust' 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(f) Investor 
Education and 
Protection 
Fund (IEPF) 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(g) Resident 
Individuals 
holding nominal 
share capital up 
to Rs. 2 lakhs 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(h) Resident 
Individuals 
holding nominal 
share capital in 
excess of Rs. 2 
lakhs 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(i) Non Resident 
Indians (NRIs) 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(j) Foreign 
Nationals 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(k) Foreign 
Companies 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(l) Bodies 
Corporate 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
(m) Any Other 
(specify) 
                               NA         
  Name (Xyz)                                NA         
  Sub-Total 
(B)(4) 
                               NA

[Page 81]
Page 81 of 291 
 
  Total Public 
Shareholding 
(B) = (B)(1) + 
(B)(2) + (B)(3) 
+ B(4) 
                               NA         
Details of the shareholders acting as persons in Concert including their Shareholding (No. and %):  
Details of Shares which remain unclaimed may be given here along with details such as number of shareholders, outstanding sha res held in demat/unclaimed suspense account, voting rights which are  frozen etc. 
Note: 
(1) PAN would not be displayed on website of Stock Exchange(s).  
(2) The above format needs to be disclosed along with the names of the shareholders holding 1% or more than 1% of shares of t he listed entity. Columns no. (XIV) to (XVII) are not applicable in the above format. 
(3) W.r.t. the information pertaining to Depository Receipts, the same may be disclosed in the respective columns to the exte nt information available and the balance to be disclosed as held by custodian.  
(4) Categorization and disclosure of each shareholder category should be carried out in the order prescribed in the above format. If a sha reholder is falling under more than one category, then the same shall be classified in the category falling first in t he 
order prescribed in the above format. Shareholding under any of the categories shall be unique and will not be duplicated under multipl e categories. 
(5) Sub-categorization of shares under column no. (XIX) will be based on shareholding (no. of shares) under the follo wing sub-categories: 
(i) Shareholders who are represented by a nominee Director on the board of the listed entity or have the right to nominate a representative (i.e. Director) on the board of the listed entity.  
(ii) Shareholders who have entered into shareholder agreement with the listed entity. 
(iii) Shareholders acting as persons in concert with promoters.

[Page 82]
Page 82 of 291 
 
Table IV - Statement showing holding of specified securities by the Non-Promoter Non-Public shareholders 
 
 Category & 
Name of the 
Shareholders 
(I) 
PAN  
(II) 
No. 
of 
shar
ehol
der  
(III) 
No. of 
fully 
paid 
up 
equity 
share
s held  
(IV) 
Partly 
paid-
up 
equity 
share
s held  
(V) 
No. of 
shares 
underlyi
ng 
Deposit
ory 
Receipt
s  
(VI) 
Total no. 
shares 
held   
(VII = 
IV+V+VI) 
Shareholding 
% calculate d 
as per SCRR, 
1957 
As a % of 
(A+B+C2)  
(VIII) 
Number of Voting Rights held in 
each class of securities  
(IX) 
No. of 
Shares 
Underlyi
ng 
Outstan
ding 
converti
ble 
securitie
s 
(includi
ng 
Warrant
s, 
ESOP, 
etc.)  
(X) 
Total No of 
shares on fully 
diluted basis 
(including 
warrants, 
ESOP, 
Convertible 
Securities 
etc.) 
(XI)=(VII+X) 
Total 
shareholding, 
as a % 
assuming full 
conversion of      
convertible 
securities (as 
a percentage 
of diluted 
share capital)  
(XII) 
Number of 
Locked in 
shares  
(XIII) 
Number of 
Shares 
pledged  
(XIV) 
Non-Disposal 
Undertaking 
(XV) 
Other 
encumbrance
s, if any  
(XVI) 
 
Total 
Number of 
Shares 
encumber
ed (XVII) = 
(XIV+XV+X
VI) 
 
Numb
er of 
equity 
share
s held 
in 
demat
erializ
ed 
form  
(XVIII) 
No of Voting Rights Total as 
a % of 
Total 
Voting 
rights 
 
Class 
X 
Class 
Y 
Total No.  
(a) 
As a 
% of 
total 
Shar
es 
held  
(b) 
No. 
(a) 
As 
a 
% 
of 
tot
al 
sh
are
s 
hel
d 
(b) 
No. 
(a) 
As 
a % 
of 
tota
l 
sha
res 
hel
d 
(b) 
No. 
(a) 
As 
a 
% 
of 
tot
al 
sh
ar
es 
he
ld 
(b) 
No
. 
(a) 
As 
a 
% 
of 
tot
al 
sh
ar
es 
he
ld 
(b) 
 
(1) Custodian/DR 
Holder 
                               NA    
(a) Name of DR 
Holder (If 
available) 
                               NA     
(i) abc…                                NA    
(ii) efg…                                NA     
 Sub-Total (C1)                   
(2) Employee 
Benefit Trust / 
Employee 
Welfare Trust 
under SEBI 
(Share Based 
Employee 
Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 
2021 
                               NA    
(a) Name (abc…                                NA   
 Sub-Total (C2)                   
  Total Non 
Promoter - 
Non Public 
                               NA

[Page 83]
Page 83 of 291 
 
 
Shareholding 
(C) = (C1) + 
(C2) 
Note: 
(1) PAN would not be displayed on website of Stock Exchange(s).  
(2) The above format needs to be disclosed along with the names of the shareholders holding 1% or more than 1% of shares of t he listed entity. Columns no. (XIV) to (XVII) are not applicable in the above format.  
(3) W.r.t. the information pertaining to Depository Receipts, the same may be disclosed in the respective columns to the extent information available.

[Page 84]
Page 84 of 291 
 
 Table V- Statement showing details of significant beneficial owners 
 
Sr. 
No 
Details of the SBO 
(I) 
Details of the registered owner  
(II) 
Details of holding/ exercise of right of the 
SBO in the reporting company, whether 
direct or indirect*: 
(III) 
Date of 
creation / 
acquisition of 
significant 
beneficial 
interest# 
(IV) 
Name PAN/ 
Passport 
No. in 
case of a 
foreign 
national$ 
Nationality Name PAN / 
Passport 
No. in 
case of a 
foreign 
national 
Nationality  Whether by virtue of:   
(a) Shares   % 
(b) Voting rights   % 
 
(c) Rights on 
distributable 
dividend or any 
other distribution 
% 
(d) Exercise of 
control 
 
(e) Exercise of 
significant 
influence 
 
          
          
          
* In case the nature of the holding / exercise of the right of a SBO falls under multiple categories specified under (a) to (e) under Column (III), 
multiple rows for the same SBO shall be inserted accordingly for each of the categories.  
 
# This column shall have the details as specified by the listed entity under Form No. BEN-2 as submitted to the Registrar.  
 
$ PAN/ Passport number not to be disclosed on the website of the Stock Exchange(s).

[Page 85]
Page 85 of 291 
 
Table VI - Statement showing foreign ownership limits 
 Board approved limits  Limits utilized  
As on shareholding date    
As on the end of previous 1st quarter    
As on the end of previous 2nd quarter    
As on the end of previous 3rd quarter    
As on the end of previous 4th quarter    
]

[Page 86]
Page 86 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 3 
81[***] 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
81 Omitted Annexures 3, as same has become part of Integrated Filing (Governance) , with issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, incorporated in                    
Section VI-L of this Master Circular. For text of Annexure 3 prior to omission, user may refer Master Circular dated November 11, 2024 available on the SEBI Website.

[Page 87]
Page 87 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 4 
 
82[***] 
 
 
                                                           
82Omitted Annexures 4, as same has become part of Integrated Filing (Governance) , with issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, incorporated in                               
Section VI-L of this Master Circular. For text of Annexure 4 prior to omission, user may refer Master Circular dated November 11, 2024 available on the SEBI Website.  
 
.

[Page 88]
Page 88 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 5 
 
83[***] 
 
 
                                                           
83Omitted Annexures 5, as same has become part of Integrated Filing (Governance) , with issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-
2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, incorporated in Section VI -L of this Master Circular. For text of Annexure 5 prior to omission, 
user may refer Master Circular dated November 11, 2024 available on the SEBI Website.

[Page 89]
Page 89 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 6 
 
84[***] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                           
84Omitted Annexures 6, as same has become part of Integrated Filing (Governance) , with issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-
2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, incorporated in Section VI -L of this Master Circular. For text of Annexure 6 prior to omission, 
user may refer Master Circular dated November 11, 2024 available on the SEBI Website.

[Page 90]
Page 90 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 7 
FORMAT FOR HOLDING PATTERN OF IDRs 
 
Distribution of IDR holding as on quarter ending [●] : 
 
Category of IDR holders  No. of IDR 
holders  
No of  
IDRs held  
Percentage of IDRs 
Held  
Promoter's holding     
Promoters*      
Non-Promoters Holding      
Institutional Investors     
Mutual Funds      
Banks/ Financial Institutions/ Insurance 
Companies   
   
Sub-Total     
Others     
Private Corporate Bodies     
Persons resident outside India  
- Individuals  
- Others  
   
Indian Public     
Any other (please specify)     
Sub-Total     
GRAND TOTAL     
* as may be applicable.   
 
Note 1: The name, number of IDRs held and percentage holding of entities / persons holding more 
than 1 percent of the IDRs issued by the listed entity shall be given under each head.   
 
Note 2: The listed entity shall provide the following details: (i) number of  underlying equity shares of 
the listed entity represented by the total IDRs and (ii) percentage of equity shares underlying the IDRs 
as a proportion of the total equity share capital of the listed entity.

[Page 91]
Page 91 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 8 
PROCEDURE FOR TWO-WAY FUNGIBILITY OF IDRs 
1. The procedure for partial two -way fungibility prescribed herein shall be applicable to future IDR 
issuances as well as for the existing listed IDRs.  
 
2. The partial two-way fungibility means that the IDRs can be converted into underlying equity shares 
and the underlying equity shares can be converted into IDRs within the available headroom. The 
headroom for this purpose shall be the number of IDRs originally issued minus the number of IDRs 
outstanding, which is further adjusted for IDRs redeemed into underlying equity shares 
(“Headroom”).  
 
A. GUIDELINES FOR FUNGIBILITY OF FUTURE IDR ISSUANCE  
 
3. IDRs shall not be redeemable into underlying equity shares before the expiry of one year perio d 
from the date of listing of IDRs.  
 
4. After completion of one year period from the date of listing of IDRs, the issuer shall, provide two -
way fungibility of IDRs.  
 
5. IDR fungibility shall be provided on a continuous basis.  
 
6. The issuer shall provide said fungibility to IDR holders in any of the following ways:  
 
(a) converting IDRs into underlying shares; or  
(b) converting IDRs into underlying shares and selling the underlying shares in the foreign 
market where the shares of the issuer are listed and providing the sale proceeds to the IDR 
holders; or  
(c) both the above options may be provided to IDR holders.  
 
Provided that the option once exercised and disclosed by the issuer at the time of offering the 
IDRs to public cannot be changed without the specific approval of SEBI.  
 
7. All the IDRs that have been applied for fungibility by the holder shall be transferred to ID R 
redemption account at the time of application. The issuer shall take necessary steps to provide 
underlying shares or sale proceeds as per the choice made under para 6 above.  
 
8. The Issuer may receive requests from the holders of underlying shares and convert these into IDRs 
subject to the Headroom available with respect to the number of IDRs originally issued subject to 
the guidelines prescribed by SEBI & Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) from time to time.  
 
B. GUIDELINES FOR FUNGIBILITY OF EXISTING LISTED IDRs  
 
9. After completion of one -year period from the date of issue of IDRs, the issuer shall, every year 
provide redemption/conversion of IDRs into underlying equity shares of the issuer of up to 25% of 
the IDRs originally issued. The Issuer shall invite expression of interest from IDR holders by giving

[Page 92]
Page 92 of 291 
 
advertisements in leading English and Hindi national daily newspapers with wide circulation as well 
as notification to the stock exchanges giving the operating guidelines for redemption/ conversion 
of IDRs at least one month before the implementation.  
 
10. The issuer shall exercise the option specified in para 11 below provided that the same is disclosed 
in accordance with para 20 below.  
 
11. The mode of fungibility: The issuer shall provide the said fungibility  to IDR holders in any of the 
following ways:  
 
(a) converting IDRs into underlying shares; or  
(b) converting IDRs into underlying shares and selling the underlying shares in the foreign 
market where the shares of the Issuer are listed and providing the sale proceeds to the IDR 
holders; or  
(c) both the above options may be provided to IDR holders.  
 
12. The periodicity for IDR fungibility shall be at least once every quarter. The fungibility window shall 
remain open for the period of at least seven days.  
 
13. Provided that the option once exercised and disclosed by the issuer to public cannot be changed 
without the specific approval of SEBI. However, the issuer may decide to exercise the option 
provided in para 21 below without specific approval from SEBI.  
 
14. Total number of IDRs available for fungibility during one fungibility window shall be fixed before the 
opening of the window. Re -issuances of IDRs during the fungibility window, if any, shall be 
considered for computation of Headroom only at the time of next cycle of fung ibility. Fungibility 
window for this purpose shall mean the time period during which IDR holders can apply for 
conversion of IDRs into underlying equity shares.  
 
15. In case of requests for conversion in excess of the limit available, the manner of accepting IDRs 
for conversion/ redemption or shares for re-issuance shall be on proportionate basis.  
 
16. A reservation of 20% of the IDRs made available for redemption/conversion into underlying equity 
shares in the fungibility window shall be provided to Retail Investors. Within this reserved window:  
 
(a) in case of higher demand for fungibility, the demand shall be satisfied on proportionate 
basis. Further, the excess unsatisfied demand from the retail investors shall be included in 
the unreserved portion.   
(b) in case of lower demand for fungibility from retail investors, the unallocated portion shall be 
added to the unreserved portion.  
 
17. All the IDRs applied for fungibility  shall be transferred to IDR redemption account at the time of 
application and in case of unsuccessful bids the balance IDRs shall be transferred back to the 
account of applicant. The issuer shall take necessary steps to provide underlying shares or cash 
as per the choice made under para 11 above.

[Page 93]
Page 93 of 291 
 
18. The Issuer may receive requests from the holders of underlying shares and convert these into IDRs 
subject to the Headroom available with respect to the number of IDRs originally issued subject to 
the guidelines prescribed by RBI from time to time.  
19. In case of option of converting IDRs into underlying shares and providing the sale proceeds to the 
IDR holders, the issuer shall disclose the range of fixed/variable costs in percentage terms upfront 
and all the cost together shall not exceed 5% of the sale proceeds.  
 
20. Available Headroom and significant conversion/ reconversion transactions shall be disclosed by 
the issuer on a continuous basis.  
 
21. Existing issuers shall provide the option of redemption/ conversion withi n three months of 
notification of these guidelines.  
 
22. The existing issuer of IDR may exercise the option of using the guidelines available for the new 
issuers as referred above from the anniversary of the date of listing of their IDRs after the issuance 
of this circular or from any of the subsequent quarters thereafter. For this purpose, the issuer shall 
disclose the exercising of the said option by giving advertisements in leading English and Hindi 
national daily newspapers with wide circulation as well as notification to the stock exchanges giving 
the operating guidelines for redemption/ conversion of IDRs at least one month before exercising 
the option. The said option, once exercised, cannot be reversed.  
 
23. The issuer shall lay down the detailed procedures while taking into consideration the above broad 
guidelines in addition to other norms specified by SEBI and RBI, from time to time. 
 
******

[Page 94]
Page 94 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 9 
 
FORMAT FOR FINANCIAL RESULTS PUBLISHED IN THE NEWSPAPERS (Standalone / 
Consolidated) 
(See regulation 47(1)(b) of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015) 
 
Sl. 
No. Particulars 
Quarter 
ending/Current 
Year ending 
Year to date 
Figures/ 
Previous Year 
ending 
Corresponding 
3 months 
ended in the 
previous year 
1.  Total income from operations     
2.  
Net Profit / (Loss) for the period 
(before Tax, Exceptional and/ or 
Extraordinary items#)   
   
3.  
Net Profit / (Loss) for the period 
before tax (after Exceptional and/or 
Extraordinary items#)  
   
4.  
Net Profit / (Loss) for the period after 
tax (after Exceptional and/or 
Extraordinary items#) 
   
5.  
Total Comprehensive Income for the 
period [Comprising Profit / (Loss) for 
the period (after tax) and Other 
Comprehensive Income (after tax)] 
   
6.  Equity Share Capital     
7.  
Reserves (excluding Revaluation 
Reserve) as shown in the Audited 
Balance Sheet of the previous year.  
   
8.  
Earnings Per Share (of Rs. ___/- 
each) (for continuing and 
discontinued operations) -  
1. Basic:  
2. Diluted:  
   
Note:  
a. The above is an extract of the detailed format of Quarterly/Annual Financial Results filed with the 
Stock Exchanges under Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing and Other Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. The full format of the Quarterly/Annual Financial Results are available on the 
websites of the Stock Exchange(s) and the listed entity. (URL of the filings).  
 
b. The impact on net profit / loss, total comprehensive income or any other relevant financial item(s) 
due to change(s) in accounting policies shall be disclosed by means of a footnote.  
 
c. # - Exceptional and/or Extraordinary items adjusted in the Statement of Profit and Loss in 
accordance with Ind-AS Rules / AS Rules, whichever is applicable.

[Page 95]
Page 95 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 10 
PROCEDURE FOR LIMITED REVIEW OF THE AUDIT OF ALL THE ENTITIES / COMPANIES 
WHOSE ACCOUNTS ARE TO BE CONSOLIDATED WITH THE LISTED ENTITY 
1. OBJECTIVE AND CLARIFICATIONS 
 
a. The objective of this Procedure is to ensure that the statutory auditors undertaking the 
audit / review of the Consolidated Financial Statements / Results of the Parent Company 
obtain desired information as required under the Standard on Auditing (SA) 600,  "Using 
the Work of Another  Auditor" and the Guidance Note (GN) on Audit of Consolidated  
Financial Statements (Revised 2016) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (ICAI) in order to rely on the work of the auditors of the Financial Statements / Results 
/ Information of the Components, while forming and expressing an opinion / conclusion, as 
applicable, on the Consolidated Financial Statements / Results of the Parent Company 
under Regulation 33(8) of SEBI LODR Regulations. 
However, the au dit and limited review of the respective Components that are being 
consolidated with the Parent Company shall continue to be undertaken by the respective 
auditors of such Components. 
b. The procedure is applicable for Listed Entities in the case of review of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements / Results of the Parent Company prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of: 
(i) Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS), [namely, Ind AS 110: Consolidated 
Financial Statements, Ind AS 28: Investments in Associates and Jo int Ventures 
and Ind AS 111:Joint Arrangements] or 
(ii) Accounting Standards (AS),  [namely,  AS  21:  Consolidated Financial Statements, 
AS 23: Accounting for Investments in Associates in Consolidated Financial 
Statements and AS 27: Financial Reporting of Interests in Joint Ventures]. 
 
c. The procedure does not alter the requirements of limited review or audit of the Standalone 
/ Consolidated Financial Statements/Results of the Parent Company and/or the 
Standalone Financial Statements/Results of the Components. The requirement for review 
/ audit of the financial Statements / results as mandated by regulations 33(1) and 33(3), 
continues to exist. Accordingly, the Parent Company could opt to either get the 
Consolidated Statements / Results subjected to limited review or audit by their auditors. 
 
2. AUDIT / REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS / RESULTS 
 
a. Compliance with Mandatory SAs / SREs / GNs issued by ICAI 
 
The audit / review of Consolidated Financial Statement / Results should be conducted in 
accordance wit h the mandatory Standards on Auditing (SA) / Standards on Review 
Engagements (SRE), Guidance Notes (GN), as applicable, issued by the ICAI.

[Page 96]
Page 96 of 291 
 
In this regard, the audit of Consolidated Financial Statements/Results should be conducted 
in accordance with the Standard on Auditing (SA) 600, "Using the Work of Another Auditor" 
(hereinafter referred to as SA 600) and the Guidance Note (GN) on Audit of Consolidated 
Financial Statements (Revised 2016) (hereinafter referred to as GN CFS) issued by the 
Institute of Char tered Accountants of India (ICAI) and other guidance/guidelines of the 
ICAI. The review of Consolidated Financial Statements / Results should be conducted in 
accordance with the Standard on Review Engagements (SRE) issued for the purpose by 
the ICAI, also to be read in conjunction with SA 600 and GN on CFS. 
b.  Procedures under SA 600, SRE 2400/2410 and GN on CFS 
 
The Principal Auditor i.e. the auditor of the parent listed entity should plan and perform an 
audit to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to express an opinion on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements / Results. In an audit of Consolidated Financial 
Statements / Results, the principal auditor (as defined in SA 600) is required to perform 
various procedures in accordance with SA 600 and GN on CFS issued by the ICAI. 
The Principal Auditor should plan and perform the review to obtain moderate assurance 
as to whether the Consolidated Financial Statements / Results are free of material 
misstatement. A review is limited primarily to inquiries of company personnel and analytical 
procedures, applied to financial data and thus provides less assurance than an audit. In 
an engagement to review Consolidated Financial Statements / Results also, the Principal 
Auditor should comply with the requirements of SA 600, SRE 2400/2410 and GN on CFS, 
as may be applicable. 
c. Procedure 
 
Pursuant to (a) and (b) above, the principal auditor (that is, the Parent Company's Auditor) 
shall, inter alia, consider the following procedures, as applicable, with respect to the audit 
/ review of the Consolidated Financial Statements/Results: 
(Note: These procedures are not to be construed as being complete and comprehensive 
and are not a replacement or a substitute to the requirements detailed in the relevant 
Standards on Auditing / Standards on Review Engagements/Guidance Notes and must, 
therefore, not be read on a standalone basis) 
 
i. Obtain an understanding of the consolidation process followed by the Parent 
Company Management, including the instructions issued by the Parent Company 
Management to Components. 
 
ii. Discuss with the other auditor or Component Management those of the Component’s 
business activities that are significant to the group and identify Components that are 
likely to be Significant (See Explanatory Note below) and Non-significant and develop 
an overall Consolidated Financial Statements/ Results audit / review plan. 
 
(Explanatory Note : The principal auditor will determine Significant Components. 
Such determination should be made by the principal auditor based upo n their 
understanding of the risks associated with the consolidated financial statements,

[Page 97]
Page 97 of 291 
 
materiality and exercise of professional judgment. However, as a minimum, Significant 
Components selected by the principal auditor would represent those Components 
which together with the Parent Company would in the aggregate represent at least 
eighty percent of each of the consolidated revenue, assets and profits.) 
iii. Determine the materiality for the Consolidated Financial Statements / Results as a 
whole when establishing the overall Consolidated Financial Statements / Results audit 
/ review plan as well as determine whether the component's financial statements are 
material to the group to determine whether they should scope in additional 
components, and consider using t he work of other auditors (that is, the Component 
Auditors), as applicable. 
 
iv. When planning to use the work of another auditor, the principal auditor shall consider 
the professional competence of the other auditor in the context of the specific 
assignment, if the other auditor is not a member of the ICAI –SA 600 Para 11. 
 
v. Determine the nature, timing and extent of the procedures to be performed by the 
principal auditor. The principal auditor shall also perform procedures to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence, that the work of the other auditor is adequate for 
the principal auditor's purposes, in the context of the specific assignment. 
 
vi. Design and perform audit / review procedures on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements / Results arising from the sp ecial considerations relating to the 
consolidation process. 
 
vii. When considered necessary by the principal auditor, he may require the other auditor 
to answer a detailed questionnaire regarding matters on which the principal auditor 
requires information for discharging his duties. The other auditor should respond to 
such questionnaire on a timely basis. 
 
viii. While the principal auditor should consider the significant findings of the other auditor, 
he may consider it appropriate to discuss with the other auditor and the management 
of the component, the audit findings or other matters affecting the financial information 
of the components. He may also decide that supplemental tests of the records or the 
financial statements of the component are necessary. Such tests may, depending 
upon the circumstances, be performed by the principal auditor or the other auditor. 
 
ix. When the principal auditor concludes that the financial information of a component is 
immaterial, the procedures outlined in SA 600 do not apply. When sever al 
components, immaterial in themselves, are together material in relation to the financial 
information of the entity as a whole, the procedures outlined in SA 600 should be 
considered. 
 
x. Obtain Management Representations including those relating to the Con solidated 
Financial Statements / Results.

[Page 98]
Page 98 of 291 
 
xi. Evaluate and consider all Reporting Considerations including those communicated by 
the other auditors, 
 
xii. Include in the audit / review documentation, the matters specified in SA 600 Para 18. 
 
d. Consolidated Financial Statements / Results Audit / Review Instructions 
 
The Consolidated Financial Statements / Results Audit / Review Instructions mentioned below 
may set out the work to be performed, the use to be made of that work, and the form and content 
of the other auditor communication with the principal auditor. 
The principal auditor shall communicate its requirements to the other auditor on a timely basis. 
This communication shall set out the work to be performed, the use to be made of that work, and 
the form and content of the other auditor communication with the principal auditor. 
The Parent Company Management is responsible to ensure that there is co-ordination between 
the principal and other auditor to comply with the requirements of SA 600. 
The key matters that ma y, inter alia, be included in the Consolidated Financial Statements / 
Results audit / review instructions include: 
 
i. A request that the other auditor, knowing the context in which the principal auditor will use 
the work of the other auditor, confirms that the other auditor will cooperate with the principal 
auditor 
 
ii. Dates of planned visits to the Components, where considered necessary, by the principal 
auditor and/or meetings with the other auditor, duly considering whether the other auditor 
is or is not a member of the ICAI 
 
iii. The principal auditor would inform the other auditor of matters such as areas requiring 
special consideration, including procedures for the identification of inter component 
transactions that may require disclosure. 
 
iv. The ethical and independence requirements that are relevant to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements/Results audit/review. 
 
v. The threshold above which misstatements, if any, in the Component’s financial 
Statements/results cannot be regarded as immaterial to the Consolidated F inancial 
Statements/Results. 
 
vi. A list of Related Parties prepared by Parent Company Management and work to be 
performed on intra -group transactions and unrealized profits and intra -group account 
balances.

[Page 99]
Page 99 of 291 
 
vii. Significant Risks of Material Misstatement of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements/Results, due to Fraud or Error, identified by the principal auditor that are 
relevant to the work of the other auditor. 
 
viii. A description of the accounting policies, to ensure consistent application of accounting 
policies across the group. 
 
ix. A request that the other auditor communicates on a timely basis any Significant Risks of 
Material Misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements / Results, due to Fraud or 
Error, identified in the Component and the other auditor’s response to such risks 
 
x. Subsequent Events Review requirements. 
 
xi. The timetable for completing the audit/review and for submission of deliverables (audited / 
reviewed financial statement/results, response to questionnaires, summary of significant 
findings, reports, etc.) 
 
xii. Information on instances of non-compliance with laws or regulations that could give rise to 
a material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements / Results. 
 
xiii. A list of uncorrected misstatements of the financial information of the Component. 
 
xiv. Indicators of possible management bias in making accounting estimates at the Component 
level. 
 
xv. Description of any identified significant deficiencies in internal control at the Component 
level. 
 
xvi. Other significant matters that the other auditor communicated or expects to communicate 
to those charged with governance of the Component, including fraud or suspected fraud 
involving Component Management, employees who have significant roles in internal 
control at the Component level or others where th e fraud resulted in a material 
misstatement of the financial information of the Component. 
 
xvii. Any other matters that may be relevant to the audit/review of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements/Results, or that the other auditor wishes to draw to the attention of the principal 
auditor, including exceptions noted in the written representations that the other auditor 
requested from the Component Management. 
 
The list above is not exhaustive and other matters, as decided by the Principal Auditor may be 
included. However, if the principal auditor decides not to include any of the key matters 
mentioned above, he may do so with reasons recorded in writing.

[Page 100]
Page 100 of 291 
 
The other auditor should: 
(a) Initially, provide an acknowledgement to the principal auditor for the receip t of the 
instructions; and  
(b) Finally, provide a confirmation to the principal auditor regarding compliance with the 
instructions received, together with the applicable audit/review report. 
 
Note: Necessary guidance provided by the ICAI in relation to this procedure should be 
followed

[Page 101]
Page 101 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 11 
 
FORMATS FOR LIMITED REVIEW REPORTS / AUDIT REPORTS 
 
Exhibit C1: Format for the Limited Review Report for listed entities other than banks and  
insurance companies - unaudited standalone quarterly and year to date results 
 
Review report to....................  
 
We have reviewed the accompanying statement of unaudited financial results of 
…………………………….. (Name of the Company) for the period ended…………. This statement is 
the responsibility of the Company’s Management and has been approved by the Board of Directors. 
Our responsibility is to issue a report on these financial statements based on our review.  
 
We conducted our review of the Statement in accordance with the Standard on Review Engagements 
(SRE) 2410 “Review of Interim Financial Information Performed by the Independent Auditor of the 
Entity”, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. This standard requires that we plan 
and perform the review to obtain moderate assurance as to whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement. A review is limited primarily to inquiries of company personnel and 
analytical procedures applied to financial data and thus provides less assurance than an audit. We 
have not performed an audit and accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion.  
 
Based on our review conducted as above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe 
that the accompanying statement of unaudited financial results prepared in accordance with 
applicable accounting standards and other recognized accounting practices and policies has not 
disclosed the information required to be disclosed in terms of Regu lation 33 of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 including the manner in which it is to 
be disclosed, or that it contains any material misstatement.  
 
 [Insert Emphasis of Matter Paragraph]85 
 Our conclusion is not modified in respect of this matter.  
For XYZ & Co.  
Chartered Accountants  
 
 
Signature  
(Name of the member signing the review report)   
(Designation)86 
(Membership Number)  
UDIN  
Place of signature  
Date  
                                                           
85 If applicable, based on facts and circumstances of the engagement.  
86Partner or proprietor, as the case may be

[Page 102]
Page 102 of 291 
 
Exhibit C2: When an Unmodified Opinion is expressed on the Quarterly and year to date 
financial results for companies (other than banks and insurance companies)  
 
Illustrative format of Independent Auditor’s Report (Unmodified Opinion) on Audited standalone 
Quarterly Financial Results and Year to Date Results of the Company Pursuant to the Regulation 33 
of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015  
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF.........................  
Report on the audit of the Standalone Financial Results Opinion  
We have audited the accompanying standalone quarterly financial results of ……… (Name of the 
company) (the company) for the quarter ended ……(date of the quarter end) and the year to date 
results for the period from ………… to …………, attached herewith, being submitted by the company 
pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended (“LODR Regulations”).   
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us these 
standalone financial results:  
i. are presented in accordance with the requirements of Regulation 33 of the LODR Regulations 
in this regard; and  
ii. give a true and fair view in conformity with the recognition and measurement principles laid 
down in the applicable accounting standards and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India of the net profit/loss87 and other comprehensive income and other financial 
information for the quarter ended ……(date of the quarter end) as well as the year to date 
results for the period from …to ……  
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 
143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act). Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Results  section 
of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant 
to our audit of the financial results under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules 
thereunder, and we h ave fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  
[Insert Emphasis of Matter Paragraph]88 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.  
                                                           
87 Whichever is applicable 
88 If applicable, based on facts and circumstances of the engagement.

[Page 103]
Page 103 of 291 
 
Management’s Responsibilities for the Standalone Financial Results  
These quarterly financial results as well as the year to date standalone financial results have been 
prepared on the ba sis of the interim financial statements. The Company’s Board of Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of these financial results that  give a true and fair view of the net 
profit/loss and other comprehensive income and other financial information in accordance with the 
recognition and measurement principles laid down in Indian Accounting Standard 34, ‘Interim 
Financial Reporting’ prescri bed under Section 133 of the Act read with relevant rules issued 
thereunder and other accounting principles generally accepted in India and in compliance with 
Regulation 33 of the LODR Regulations. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the 
Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application 
of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate  internal  financial  controls that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the standalone financial results that give a true and fair view 
and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.  
In preparing the standalone financial results, the Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends 
to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.  
The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting 
process.  
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Results  
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial results as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s 
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance  is a high level of assurance, but is not a 
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually 
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users 
taken on the basis of these standalone financial results.   
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:  
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial results, whether 
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain 
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override 
of internal control.   
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the company’s internal control.  
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors.  
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board o f Directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists

[Page 104]
Page 104 of 291 
 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going conce rn. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial results or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on  the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.  
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial r esults, 
including the disclosures, and whether the financial results represent the underlying transactions 
and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.  
 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned 
scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit.  
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our indepe ndence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.  
For XYZ & Co.  
Chartered Accountants  
(Firm’s Registration No.)  
 
Signature  
(Name of the member signing the audit report)   
(Designation)89 
(Membership Number)  
UDIN  
Place of signature  
Date 
  
                                                           
89 Partner or proprietor, as the case may be.

[Page 105]
Page 105 of 291 
 
Exhibit C3: Independent Auditor’s Review Report on Review of Consolidated Unaudited 
Quarterly and Year to date Financial Results for companies (other than banks and 
insurance companies) 
 
Independent Auditor’s Review Report  on consolidated unaudited quarterly and year to date 
financial results of the Company Pursuant to the Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
 
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF  
............................... 
 
1. We have reviewed the accompanying Statement of Consolidated Unaudited Financial 
Results of ......... (“the Parent”) and its subsidiaries (the Parent and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as “the Group”), and its share of the net profit/(loss) after tax and total 
comprehensive income / loss of its associates and joint ventures for the quarter ended 
________ and for the period from_____ to______ (“the Statement”), being submitted by the 
Parent pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 33 of the S EBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended90. Attention is drawn to the fact 
that the consolidated figures for the corresponding quarter ended ____ and the 
corresponding period from _____to______, as reported in these financial results have been 
approved by the Parent’s Board of Directors, but have not been subjected to review91.  
 
2. This Statement, which is the responsibility of the Parent’s Management and approved by 
the Parent’s Board of Directors, has been prepared in accordance with the recognition and 
measurement principles laid down in Indian Accounting Standard 34 “Interim Financial 
Reporting” (“Ind AS 34”), prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, and 
other accounting principles generally accepted  in India. Our responsibility is to express a 
conclusion on the Statement based on our review.  
 
3. We conducted our review of the Statement in accordance with the Standard on Review 
Engagements (SRE) 2410 “Review of Interim Financial Information Performed by  the 
Independent Auditor of the Entity”, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 
A review of interim financial information consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons 
responsible for financial and accounting matters, and applying analytical and other review 
procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance 
with Standards on Auditing and consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that 
we would become aware of all significant matters t hat might be identified in an audit. 
Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion.  
 
We also performed procedures in accordance with the circular issued by the SEBI under 
Regulation 33 (8) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended, to the extent applicable.  
 
4. The Statement includes the results of the following entities: ( indicate list of entities 
included in the consolidation similar to the requirement for audited consolidated 
results)  
                                                           
90 Regulations includes relevant circulars issued by SEBI from time to time. 
91 As applicable (for example, in the first financial year of a newly listed company, or when consolidated quarterly 
financial results are submitted for the first time pursuant to the mandatory requirement with effect from April 1, 
2019, and no quarterly consolidated financial results were submitted in the previous year)

[Page 106]
Page 106 of 291 
 
5. Based on our review conducted and procedures performed as stated in paragraph 3 above 
and based on the consideration of the review reports of the branch auditors and other 
auditors referred to in paragraph 7 below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us 
to believe that the accompanying Statement, prepared in accordance with the recognition 
and measurement principles laid down in the aforesaid Indian Accounting Standard and 
other accounting principles generally accepted in India, has not disclosed the information 
required to be disclosed in terms of Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended, including the manner in which 
it is to be disclosed, or that it contains any material misstatement.  
 
6. [Insert Emphasis of Matter paragraph]. Our conclusion is not modified in respect of this 
matter.  
 
7. We did not review the interim financial statements /financial information/ financial results of 
________ branches and _______ joint operations included in the standalone  unaudited/ 
audited interim financial statements/ financial information/ financial results of the entities 
included in the Group, whose results reflect total assets92 of Rs. ______ as at_______ and 
total revenues of Rs. _______and Rs.______, total net profi t / (loss) after tax of 
Rs.______and Rs._______ and total comprehensive income/ loss of Rs.______and 
Rs.______ for the quarter ended__________ and for the period from_____ to______ 
respectively, and cash flows (net)93 of Rs. ____ for the period from_____ to__________94, 
as considered in the respective standalone unaudited/ audited interim financial statements/ 
financial information/ financial results of the entities included in the Group. The interim 
financial statements/ financial information / financial res ults of these branches and joint 
operations have been reviewed by the branch auditors and other auditors whose reports 
have been furnished to us or other auditors, and our conclusion in so far as it relates to the 
amounts and disclosures included in respec t of these branches and joint operations, is 
based solely on the report of such branch auditors and other auditors and the procedures 
performed by us as stated in paragraph 3 above.  
 
We did not review the interim financial statements / financial informati on / financial results 
of ______ subsidiaries included in the consolidated unaudited financial results, whose 
interim financial statements / financial information / financial results reflect total assets 95 of 
Rs.______as at_______ and total revenues of Rs. 96_______and Rs._______, total net 
profit/(loss) after tax of Rs.______ and Rs._______and total comprehensive income / loss 
of Rs.______ and Rs._______, for the quarter ended __________and for the period 
from_____ to______, respectively, and cash flows (net) 97 of Rs. ____ for the period 
from_____ to___________, as considered in the consolidated unaudited financial results. 
The consolidated unaudited financial results also includes the Group’s share of net 
profit/(loss) after tax of Rs. _____and Rs._______ and total comprehensive income / loss 
of Rs.__________and Rs. _______for the quarter ended ________ and for the period 
from______ to______ ,respectively, as considered in the consolidated unaudited financial 
results, in respect of ____associates and ______join t ventures, whose interim financial 
statements / financial information/ financial results have not been reviewed by us. These 
                                                           
92Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements. 
93 To be given on half yearly basis with effect from April 1, 2019 
94Where applicable 
95 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements. 
96 All amounts, whether audited by other auditors or unaudited to be presented before giving effect to the permanent and current  period 
consolidation adjustments as specified by paragraph 50 of the Guidance Note on Audit of Consolidated Financial Statements issued by the 
ICAI 
97 To be given on half yearly basis with effect from April 1, 2019.

[Page 107]
Page 107 of 291 
 
interim financial statements / financial information / financial results have been reviewed by 
other auditors whose reports have b een furnished to us by the Management and our 
conclusion on the Statement, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included 
in respect of these subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, is based solely on the reports 
of the other auditors and the procedures performed by us as stated in paragraph 3 above. 
 
 Our conclusion on the Statement is not modified in respect of the above matters.98 
 
8. The consolidated unaudited financial results includes the interim financial statements/ 
financial information/ financial results of ______ subsidiaries which have not been 
reviewed/audited by their auditors, whose interim financial statements/ financial information/ 
financial results reflect total assets 99 of Rs.________as at ________and total revenue o f 
Rs._____and Rs.______, total net profit/(loss) after tax of Rs.______and Rs.______ and 
total comprehensive income / loss of Rs._______and Rs.______for the quarter ended 
_______ and for the period from _____to______ , respectively, and cash flows (net) 100 of 
Rs. ____ for the period from_____ to___________, as considered in the consolidated 
unaudited financial results. The consolidated unaudited financial results also includes the 
Group’s share of net profit/(loss) after tax of Rs. _____and Rs.______ and tota l 
comprehensive income / loss of Rs. and Rs._____ for the quarter ended __________ and 
for the period from _____to______, respectively, as considered in the consolidated 
unaudited financial results, in respect of ____associates and _____ joint ventures , b ased 
on their interim financial statements/ financial information/ financial results which have not 
been reviewed/audited by their auditors. According to the information and explanations 
given to us by the Management, these interim financial statements / f inancial information / 
financial results are not material to the Group.  
 
Our conclusion on the Statement is not modified in respect of the above matter101. 
 
For XYZ & Co.  
Chartered Accountants 
 
 
Signature  
(Name of the member signing the audit report) (Designation)102 
(Membership Number) 
 
Place of signature 
Date 
 
                                                           
98 When component’s financial statements/ financial information/ financial results are not prepared under an accounting framework used by 
the parent or as per group accounting policies, para similar to that provided under Other Matters paragraph of Illustration 2  of Appendix I to 
the Guidance Note on Audit of Consolidated Financial Statements issued by the ICAI may need to be reported as required by paragraph 52 
of the said Guidance Note. 
99 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements. 
100 To be given on half yearly basis with effect from April 1, 2019 
101 Use this paragraph only when the unaudited financial statements / financial information / financial results of the subsidiari es / associates 
/joint ventures are not material to the Group 
102 Partner or proprietor, as the case may be

[Page 108]
Page 108 of 291 
 
Exhibit C4: When an Unmodified Opinion is expressed on consolidated audited quarterly and 
year to date financial results for companies (other than banks and insurance companies)  
  
Illustrative Format of Independent Auditor’s Report (Unmodified Opinion) on consolidated audited 
quarterly and year to date financial results of the Company Pursuant to the Regulation 33 of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.  
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF........................ 
Report on the audit of the Consolidated Financial Results  
Opinion  
 
We have audited the accompanying Statement of Consolidated Financial Results of.......... (“Holding 
company”) and its subsidiaries (holding company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the 
Group”), its associates and jointly controlled entities for the quarter ended ________ and for the 
period from_____ to______ (“the Statement”), being submitted by the holding company pursuant to 
the requirement of Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended (“ LODR Regulations ”). Attention is drawn to the fact that the 
consolidated figures for the corresponding quarter ended ____ and the corresponding period from 
______to______, as reported in these financial results have been approved by the holding 
company’s Board of Directors, but have not been subjected to audit/review103.  
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and 
based on the consideration of the reports of the other auditors on separate financial statements/ 
financial information of subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities, the Statement:  
a.  includes the results of the following entities:  (to indicate list of entities included in the 
consolidation);  
b. is presented in accordance with the requirements of Regulation 33 of the LODR Regulations, 
as amended; and  
c. gives a true and fair view, in conformity with the applicable accounting standards, and other 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, of consolidated total comprehensive income 
(comprising of net [profit/loss] and other comprehensive income/ los s) and other financial 
information of the Group for the quarter ended ________ and for the period from_____ to______  
Basis for Opinion  
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 
143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act). Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Results section 
of our report. We are independent of the Group, its associates and jointly controlled entities in 
                                                           
103 As applicable (for example, when consolidated quarterly financial results are submitted for the first time pursuant to the ma ndatory 
requirement with effect from April 1, 2019, and no quarterly consolidated financial results were submitted in the previous year).

[Page 109]
Page 109 of 291 
 
accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together 
with the ethical requirements that are relevant  to our audit of the financial statements under the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe 
that the audit evidence obtained by us and other auditors in terms of their reports referred to in “Other 
Matter” paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  
[Insert Emphasis of Matter Paragraph]104 
 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.  
Management’s Responsibilities for the Consolidated Financial Results  
 
These quarterly financial results as well as the year to date consolidated financial results have been 
prepared on the basis of the interim financial statements.   
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of 
these consolidated financial results  that give a true and fair view of the net profit/ loss and other 
comprehensive income and other financial informat ion of the Group including its associates and 
jointly controlled entities in accordance with the recognition and measurement principles laid down 
in Indian Accounting Standard 34, ‘Interim Financial Reporting’ prescribed under Section 133 of the 
Act read with relevant rules issued thereunder and other accounting principles generally accepted 
in India and in compliance with Regulation 33 of the LODR Regulations. The respective Board of 
Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates and jointly controlled entities 
are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Group and its associates  and jointly controlled entities 
and for preventing and  detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls , that were 
operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to 
the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial results  that give a true and fair view 
and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for 
the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial results by the Directors of the Holding 
Company, as aforesaid.  
In preparing the consolidated financial results, the respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and of its associates and jointly controlled entities are responsible for 
assessing the ability of the Group and of its associates and jointly controlled entities to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless the respective Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the 
Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.  
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates and 
jointly controlled entities are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of the Group 
and of its associates and jointly controlled entities.   
 
 
                                                           
104 If applicable, based on facts and circumstances of the engagement.

[Page 110]
Page 110 of 291 
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Results  
 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial results 
as a wh ole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs wil l always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial results.   
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:  
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial results, 
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and 
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk 
of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than  
for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.   
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control.   
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors.  
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its 
associates and jointly controlled entities to continue as a going conc ern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the consolidated financial results or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify 
our opinion. Our conclusion s are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its associates 
and jointly controlled entities to cease to continue as a going concern.  
• Evaluate the overall pr esentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial results, 
including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial results represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.  
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial results/financial information of 
the entities within the Group and its associates and jointly controlled entities to express an opinion 
on the consolidated Financial Results. We are responsible for the  direction, supervision and 
performance of the audit of financial information of such entities included in the consolidated 
financial results of which we are the independent auditors. For the other entities included in the 
consolidated Financial Results, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors 
remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by 
them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.  
We communicate with those charged with g overnance of the Holding Company and such other 
entities included in the consolidated financial results of which we are the independent auditors

[Page 111]
Page 111 of 291 
 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.  
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with 
relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate wit h them all 
relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.  
We also performed procedures in accordance with the circular issued by the SEBI under Regulation 
33(8) of the LODR Regulations, as amended, to the extent applicable.  
Other Matters 
 
The consolidated Financial Results include the audited Financial Results of ______ subsidiaries, 
____ associates and _______ jointly controlled entities, whose interim Financial 
Statements/Financial Results/ financial information reflect Group’s share of total assets 105 of Rs. 
_____ as at ______ , Group’s share of total revenue of Rs. _____and Rs. ______ and Group’s share 
of total net profit/(loss) after tax of Rs. ______and Rs. ______ for the quarter ended__________ and 
for the period from_____ to______ respectively, as considered in the consolidated Financial Results, 
which have been audited by their respective independent auditors.  The independent auditors’ 
reports on interim financial statements/Financial Results/financial information of these entities have 
been furnished to us and our opinion on the consolidated Financial Results, in so far as it relates to 
the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these entities, is ba sed solely on the report of 
such auditors and the procedures performed by us are as stated in paragraph above.  
 
The consolidated Financial Results include the unaudited Financial Results of ______ subsidiaries, 
____ associates and _______ jointly controll ed entities, whose interim Financial 
Statements/Financial Results/ financial information reflect Group’s share of total assets 106 of 
Rs._____ as at ______ , Group’s share of total revenue of Rs. _____and Rs._______ and Group’s 
share of total net profit/(loss ) after tax of Rs. ______and Rs. ______ for the quarter 
ended__________ and for the period from_____ to______ respectively, as considered in the 
consolidated Financial Results.These unaudited interim Financial Statements/Financial Results/ 
financial information have been furnished to us by the Board of Directors and our opinion on the 
consolidated Financial Results, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in 
respect of these subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities is  based solely on such 
unaudited interim Financial Statements/Financial Results/financial information. In our opinion and 
according to the information and explanations given to us by the Board of Directors, these interim 
Financial Statements/Financial Results / financial information are not material to the Group.  
Our opinion on the consolidated Financial Results is not modified in respect of the above matters 
with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors and the Financial 
Results/financial information certified by the Board of Directors. 
 For XYZ & Co.  
Chartered Accountants  
                                                           
105 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements.  
106 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements.

[Page 112]
Page 112 of 291 
 
(Firm’s Registration No.)  
Signature  
(Name of the member signing the audit report)   
(Designation)107 
(Membership Number)  
UDIN  
Place of signature  
Date  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
107 Partner or proprietor, as the case may be.

[Page 113]
Page 113 of 291 
 
Exhibit C5: Illustrative format of independent auditor’s report (unmodified opinion) on the 
annual consolidated financial results pursuant to the Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 for companies (ot her than 
banks and insurance companies)   
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
 
To the Board of Directors of ABC Company Limited (Holding Company)  
 
Report on the Audit of Consolidated Financial Results  
 
Opinion 
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated annual financial results of ABC Company Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), its associates and jointly controlled entities for the 
year ended_______, attached herewith, being submitted by the Holding Company pursuant to the 
requirement of Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended (‘LODR Regulations’).   
 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and 
based on the consideration of reports of other auditors on separate audited financial statements 
/financial results/  financial information of the subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities, 
the aforesaid consolidated financial results:   
(i) include the annual financial results of the following entities (to indicate list of entities included 
in the consolidation) 
(ii) are presented in accordance with the requirements of Regu lation 33 of the LODR Regulations 
in this regard; and  
(iii) give a true and fair view in conformity with the applicable accounting standards, and other 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, of  net profit/loss108 and other comprehensive 
income and other financial information of the Group for the year ended _______.  
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 
143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”). Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Results section 
of our report.  We are independent of the Group, its associates and jointly controlled entities in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together 
with the e thical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements under the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe 
that the audit evidence obtained by us and other auditors in terms of their reports referred to in “Other 
Matter” paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
 
                                                           
108 As applicable.

[Page 114]
Page 114 of 291 
 
[Insert Emphasis of Matter Paragraph]109 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.  
Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for the Consolidated Financial Results 
 
These Consolidated financial results have been prepared on the basis of the consolidated annual 
financial statements.  The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation 
and presentation of these consolidated financial results that give a true and fair view of the net profit/ 
loss and other comprehensive income and other financial information of the Group including its 
associates and jointly controlled entities in accordance with the  Indian Accounting Standards 
prescribed under Section 133 of the Act read with relevant rules issued thereunder and other 
accounting principles generally accepted in India and in compliance with Regulation 33 of the LODR 
Regulations. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its 
associates and jointly controlled entities are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Group and 
its associates and jointly controlled entities and for preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; selection and application of appropriate acco unting policies; making judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and 
completeness of the accountin g records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the 
consolidated financial results  that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the  
consolidated financial results by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.  
In preparing the consolidated financial results, the respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and of its associates and jointly controlled e ntities are responsible for 
assessing the ability of the Group and its associates and jointly controlled entities to continue as a 
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless the respective  Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the 
Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.  
 
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates and 
jointly controlled entities are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of the Group 
and of its associates and jointly controlled entities.   
 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Results   
 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial results 
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in  the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial results.   
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:  
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial results, 
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and 
                                                           
109 If applicable, based on facts and circumstances of the engagement.

[Page 115]
Page 115 of 291 
 
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk 
of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,  misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control.   
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3) (i) of the Act, we are 
also re sponsible for expressing our opinion on whether the company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness 
of such controls.  
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors.  
 
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whet her a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its 
associates and jointly controlled entities to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the consolidated financial results or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify 
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the  date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its associates 
and jointly controlled entities to cease to continue as a going concern.  
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidate d financial results, 
including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial results represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.  
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial results/financial information of 
the entities within the Group and its associates and jointly controlled entities to express an opinion 
on the consolidated Financial Results. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audit  of financial information of such entities included in the consolidated 
financial results of which we are the independent auditors. For the other entities included in the 
consolidated Financial Results, which have been audited by other auditors, such other  auditors 
remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by 
them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.   
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other 
entities included in the consolidated financial results of which we are the independent auditors 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We 
also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.  
We also performed procedures in accordance with the circular issued by the SEBI under Regulation 
33(8) of the LODR Regulations, as amended, to the extent applicable.

[Page 116]
Page 116 of 291 
 
Other Matters110 
The consolidated Financial Results include the audited Financial Results of ______ subsidiaries, 
____ associates and _______ jointly controlled entities, whose Financial Statements/Financial 
Results/ financial information reflect Group’s share of total assets 111 of Rs. _____ as at ______ , 
Group’s share of total revenue of Rs. _____and Rs. ______ and Group’s share of total net 
profit/(loss) after tax of Rs. ______and Rs. ______ for the quarter ended_____ _____ and for the 
period from_____ to______ respectively, as considered in the consolidated Financial Results, which 
have been audited by their respective independent auditors. The independent auditors’ reports on 
financial statements/ Financial Results/financial information of these entities have been furnished to 
us and our opinion on the consolidated Financial Results, in so far as it relates to the amounts and 
disclosures included in respect of these entities, is based solely on the report of such audit ors and 
the procedures performed by us are as stated in paragraph above.  
 
The consolidated Financial Results include the unaudited Financial Results of ______ subsidiaries, 
____ associates and _______ jointly controlled entities, whose Financial Statement s/Financial 
Results/ financial information reflect Group’s share of total assets 112 of Rs._____ as at ______ , 
Group’s share of total revenue of Rs. _____and Rs._______ and Group’s share of total net 
profit/(loss) after tax of Rs. ______and Rs. ______ for th e quarter ended__________ and for the 
period from_____ to______ respectively, as considered in the consolidated Financial Results. These 
unaudited interim Financial Statements/Financial Results/ financial information have been furnished 
to us by the Board of Directors and our opinion on the consolidated Financial Results, in so far as it 
relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, associates and 
jointly controlled entities is based solely on such unaudited Financial Sta tements/Financial 
Results/financial information. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given 
to us by the Board of Directors, these Financial Statements/Financial Results / financial information 
are not material to the Group.  
 
Our opinion on the consolidated Financial Results is not modified in respect of the above matters 
with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors and the Financial 
Results/financial information certified by the Board of Directors. 
The Financial Results include the results for the quarter ended ___________ being the balancing 
figure between the audited figures in respect of the full financial year and the published unaudited 
year to date figures up to the third quarter of the current financial year which were subject to limited 
review by us.113.  
OR  
The Financial Results include the results for the quarter ended ___________ being the balancing 
figure between the audited figures in respect of the full financial year and the published audited year 
to date figures up to the third quarter of the current financial year114.  
For XYZ & Co.  
Chartered Accountants  
(Firm's Registration No.)  
                                                           
110 Where applicable.  
111 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements. 
112 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements.  
113 Use this paragraph where the quarters were subjected to a limited review.  
114 Use this paragraph where the quarters were audited.

[Page 117]
Page 117 of 291 
 
 
Signature  
(Name of the Member Signing the Audit Report)  
Designation115 
(Membership No.)  
UDIN  
Place of signature:  
Date:  
                                                           
115Partner or proprietor, as the case may be.

[Page 118]
Page 118 of 291 
 
Exhibit B1: Format for the Limited Review Report for banks for unaudited standalone  
quarterly and year to date results 
 
Review report to....................  
 
We have reviewed the accompanying statement of unaudited financial results of ____ (Name of the 
Bank) for the period ended ____. This statement is the responsibility of the Bank’s Management and 
has been approved by the Board of Directors. Our responsibility is to issue a report on these financial 
statements based on our review.  
We conducted our review of the Statement in accordance with the Standard on Review 
Engagements (SRE) 2410 “Review of Interim Financial Information Performed by the Independent 
Auditor of the Entity”, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. This standard 
requires that we plan and perform the review to obtain moderate assurance as to whether the 
financial statements are free of material misstatement. A review is lim ited primarily to inquiries of 
company personnel and analytical procedures applied to financial data and thus provides less 
assurance than an audit. We have not performed an audit and accordingly, we do not express an 
audit opinion.  
In the conduct of our Review we have relied on the review reports in respect of non -performing 
assets received from concurrent auditors of __ branches, inspection teams of the bank of ___ 
branches and other firms of auditors of __ branches specifically appointed for this purpos e. These 
review reports cover__ percent of the advances portfolio of the bank. Apart from these review 
reports, in the conduct of our review, we have also relied upon various returns received from the 
branches of the bank.  
Based on our review conducted as  above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to 
believe that the accompanying statement of unaudited financial results prepared in accordance with 
applicable accounting standards and other recognized accounting practices and policies has not 
disclosed the information required to be disclosed in terms of Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 including the manner in which it is to 
be disclosed, or that it contains any material misstatement or  that it has not been prepared in 
accordance with the relevant prudential norms issued by the Reserve Bank of India in respect of 
income recognition, asset classification, provisioning and other related matters.  
[Insert Emphasis of Matter Paragraph]116 
 
Our conclusion is not modified in respect of this matter.  
For XYZ & Co.  
Chartered Accountants  
 
Signature  
(Name of the member signing the review report)   
(Designation)117 
(Membership Number)  
UDIN  
Place of signature  
Date  
                                                           
116 If applicable, based on facts and circumstances of the engagement. 
117 Partner or proprietor, as the case may be.

[Page 119]
Page 119 of 291 
 
Exhibit B2: When an Unmodified Opinion is expressed on the Audited quarterly and year to 
date Financial Results (for Banks)  
 
Illustrative format of Independent Auditor’s Report (Unmodified Opinion) on Audited Standalone 
Quarterly Financial Results and Year to Date Results of the Bank Pursuant to the Regulation 33 of 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT   
 
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF.........................  
 
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Results  
 
Opinion  
We have audited the accompanying standalone quarterly Financial Results of ……… (Name of the 
bank) (“the Bank”) for the quarter ended ………(date of the quarter end) and the year to date results 
for the period from ……to …… attached herewith, being submitted by the Bank pursuant to the 
requirement of Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended (“LODR Regulations”), except for the disclosures relating to Pillar 3 
disclosure as at _________, including leverage ratio and liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III 
Capital Regulations as have been disclosed on the Bank's website and in respect of which a link has 
been provided in the Financial Results and have not been audited by us.  
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, these 
standalone Financial Results:  
i. are presented in accordance with the requirements of Regulation 33 of the LODR Regulations 
in this regard except for the disclosures relating to Pillar 3 disclosure as at _________, 
including leverage ratio and liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III Capital Regulations as 
have been disclosed on the Bank's website and in respect of which a link has been provided 
in the Financial Results and have not been audited by us; and  
ii. give a true and fair view in conformity with the recognition and measurement principles laid 
down in the applicable accounting standards, RBI guidelines and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India of the net profit/ loss 118 and other financial information for the 
quarter ended …… (date of the quarter end) as well as the year to date results for the period 
from …to ………  
Basis for Opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 
143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013. (“the Act”)/ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India119. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further describ ed in the Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone  Financial Results section of our report. We are 
independent of the Bank in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India together with the e thical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
standalone Financial Results, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
                                                           
118 As applicable.  
119 In the case of a Bank, which is not incorporated as a Company.

[Page 120]
Page 120 of 291 
 
with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  
 [Insert Emphasis of Matter Paragraph]120 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.   
 
Board of Directors’ Responsibility for the Standalone Financial Results  
 
These standalone Financial Results have been compiled from the interim standalone  financial 
statements. The Bank’s  Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation of these standalone  
Financial Results that give a true and fair view of the net profit/loss121 and other financial information 
in accordance with the recognition and measurement principles laid down in Accounting Standard 25 
(AS 25)/ Indian Accounting Standard 34 (Ind AS 34) “Interim Financial Reporting” specified under 
section 133 of the Act/ iss ued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 122, the relevant 
provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the circulars, guidelines and directions issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from time to time (“RBI Guidelines”) and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India and in compli ance with Regulation 33 of the LODR Regulations. This 
responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act/Banking Regulations Act, 1949123 for safeguarding of the assets of the Bank and 
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation 
and presentation of the standalone Financial Results that give a true and fair view and are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.  
In preparing the standalone Financial Results, the Board of Directors are responsible for assessing 
the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends 
to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.   
The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process.  
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Results  
 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone  Financial Results 
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s 
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a 
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually 
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users 
taken on the basis of these standalone Financial Results. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, 
we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We 
also:  
                                                           
120 If applicable, based on facts and circumstances of the engagement.  
121 As applicable.  
122 In the case of a Bank, which is not incorporated as a Company. 
123As applicable.

[Page 121]
Page 121 of 291 
 
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone Financial Results, whether 
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain 
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override 
of internal control.  
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the Bank’s internal control.  
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors.  
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Bank’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we ar e required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the standalone Financial Results or, 
if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of ou r auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions 
may cause the Bank to cease to continue as a going concern.  
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone  Financial Results, 
including the disclosures, and whether the standalone Financial Results represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.  
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned 
scope and timing of the audit and signi ficant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit.  
 
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding indepen dence, and to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.  
Other Matter  
These standalone Financial Results incorporate the relevant returns of _________ (number) branches 
including _______ (number) foreign branches audited by the other auditors specially appointed for 
this purpose. These branches audited by other auditors cover ____% of advances, ___% of deposits 
and ___% of Non-performing assets as on __________ and ____%/ ____% of revenue for the quarter 
ended _______ /for the period ………… to ………… in conduct of our audit, we have taken note of 
the unaudited returns in respect of _________ (number) branches certified by the respective branch’s 
management. These unaudited branches cover ____% of advances, ___% of deposits and ___% of 
Non-performing assets as on __________ and ____% / % of revenue for the quarter ended _______/ 
for the period … to …….   
 
Our opinion on the standalone financial results is not modified in respect of above matter.  
 
For XYZ & Co.  
Chartered Accountants  
(Firm’s Registration No.)  
 
Signature

[Page 122]
Page 122 of 291 
 
(Name of the member signing the audit report)  
(Designation)124 
(Membership Number)  
UDIN  
Place of signature:  
Date:  
                                                           
124 Partner or proprietor, as the case may be.

[Page 123]
Page 123 of 291 
 
Exhibit B3: Independent Auditor’s Review Report on Review of Consolidated Unaudited 
Quarterly and Year to date Financial Results (for banks as per AS) 
 
Independent Auditor’s Review Report On consolidated unaudited quarterly and year to date 
financial results of the Company Pursuant to the Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
 
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF 
...................... 
1. We have reviewed the accompanying Statement of Consolidated Unaudited Financial Results of 
............... (“the Parent”/”the Bank”) and its subsidiaries (the Parent and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as “the Group”), its jointly controlled entities and its share of the net profit/ (loss) after 
tax of its associates for the quarter ended and for the  period from to (“the 
Statement”), being submitted by the Parent pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 33 of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended 125, 
except for the disclosures relating to consolidated  Pillar 3  disclosure as at , including 
leverage ratio and liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III Capital Regulations as have been 
disclosed on the Bank's website and in respect of which a link  has been provided in the 
Statement and have not been reviewed by us. Attention is drawn to the fact that the consolidated 
figures for the corresponding quarter ended and the corresponding period from to , as reported 
in these financial results have been approved by the Parent’s Board of Directors, but have not 
been subjected to review.126 
 
2. This Statement, which is the responsibility of the Parent’s Management and approved by the  
Parent’s Board of Directors, has been prepared in accordance with the recognition and 
measurement principles laid down in Accounting Standard 25 “Interim Financial Reporting” (“AS 
25”), prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013127, the relevant provisions of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the circulars, guidelines and directions issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) from time to time (“RBI Guidelines”) and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Statement based on our  
review. 
 
3. We conducted our review of the Statement in accordance with the Standard on Review 
Engagements (SRE) 2410 “Review of Interim Financial Information Performed by the 
Independent Auditor of the Entity”, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. A 
review of interim financial information consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons 
responsible for financial and accounting matters, and applying analytical and other review 
procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with 
Standards on Auditing and consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would 
become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do 
not express an audit opinion. 
We also performed procedures in accordance with the circular issued by the SEBI under 
Regulation 33 (8) of the SEBI ( Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, as amended, to the extent applicable. 
 
                                                           
125 Regulations includes relevant circulars issued by SEBI from time to time. 
126 As applicable (for example, in the first financial year of a newly listed company, or when consolidated quarterly financial 
results are submitted for the first time pursuant to the mandatory requirement with effect from April 1, 2019, and no quarterly 
consolidated financial results were submitted in the previous year). 
127 In case of nationalised banks, the reference of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India be suitably specified in lieu of 
the reference of The Companies Act, 2013.

[Page 124]
Page 124 of 291 
 
4. The Statement includes the results of the following entities: ( indicate list of entities included 
in the consolidation similar to the requirement for audited consolidated results). 
 
5. Based on our review conducted and procedures performed as stated in paragraph 3 above and 
based on the consideration of the review reports of the branch auditors and other auditors  
referred to in paragraph 7 below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe 
that the accompanying Statement, prepared in accordance with the recognition and 
measurement principles laid down in the aforesaid Accounting Standard, RBI Guidelines and 
other accounting principles gener ally accepted in India, has not disclosed the information 
required to be disclosed in terms of Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended, including the manner in which it is to be 
disclosed, except for the disclosures relating to consolidated Pillar  3 disclosure as at , 
including leverage ratio and liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III Capital Regulations as have 
been disclosed on the Bank's website and in respect  of which a link has been provided in the 
Statement and have not been reviewed by us, or that it contains any material misstatement. 
 
6. [Insert Emphasis of Matter paragraph]. Our conclusion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
 
7. We did not review the interim financial statements /financial information/ financial results of
 branches included in the standalone unaudited/ audited interim financial statements/ financial 
information/ financial results of the entities included in the Group, whose results reflect total 
assets128 of Rs. as at and total revenues of Rs. and Rs. and total net profit / (loss) 
after tax of Rs.  And Rs.            for the quarter ended  and for the period 
from to  respectively, and cash flows (net)129of Rs. for the period from to 130, as considered in 
the respective standalone unaudited/ audited interim financial statements/ financial information/ 
financial results of the entities included in the Group. The interim financial statements/ financial 
information / financial results of these branches have been reviewed by the branch auditors and 
other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us or other auditors and our conclusion in 
so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these branches, is based 
solely on the report of such branch auditors and other auditors and the procedures performed by 
us as stated in paragraph 3 above. 
 
We did not review the interim financial statements / financial information / financial results of 
______ subsidiaries and _______jointly controlled entities incl uded in the consolidated 
unaudited financial results, whose interim financial statements / financial information / financial 
results reflect total assets131 of Rs.______as at_______ and total revenues of Rs.132_______and 
Rs._______and total net profit/(loss) a fter tax of Rs.______ and Rs._______ for the quarter 
ended __________ and for the period from_____ to______, respectively, and cash flows (net)133 
of Rs. ____ for the period from_____ to___________, as considered in the consolidated 
unaudited financial resul ts. The consolidated unaudited financial results also includes the 
Group’s share of net profit/(loss) after tax of Rs. _____and Rs._______ for the quarter ended 
________ and for the period from______ to______ ,respectively, as considered in the 
consolidated unaudited financial results, in respect of ____associates , whose interim financial 
statements / financial information/ financial results have not been reviewed by us. These interim 
                                                           
128 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements. 
129 To be given on half yearly basis with effect from April 1, 2019 
130 Where applicable 
131 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements. 
132 All amounts, whether audited by other auditors or unaudited to be presented before giving effect to the permanent and current  period 
consolidation adjustments as specified by paragraph 50 of the Guidance Note on Audit of Consolidate d Financial Statements issued by the 
ICAI 
133 To be given on half yearly basis with effect from April 1, 2019

[Page 125]
Page 125 of 291 
 
financial statements / financial information / financial results have be en reviewed by other 
auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our conclusion on the 
Statement, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these 
subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, is based solely on the reports of the other 
auditors and the procedures performed by us as stated in paragraph 3 above.  
Our conclusion on the Statement is not modified in respect of the above matters134.  
 
8. The consolidated unaudited financial results includes the interim financial statements /financial 
information/ financial results which have not been reviewed  / audited of________ branches 
included in the standalone unaudited/ audited interim financial statements/ financial information/ 
financial results of the entities included in the Group, whose results reflect total assets135 of Rs.
 as at and total revenues of Rs. 
 and Rs. and total net profit / (loss) after tax of Rs.  and Rs.              for 
the quarter ended  and for the period from to  respectively, and cash flows 
(net)136of Rs. for the period from to 137, as considered in the 
respective standalone unaudited/ audited interim financial statements/ financial information/ 
financial results of the entities included in the Group. According to the information and 
explanations given to us by the Management, these interim financial statements / financial 
information / financial results are not material to the Group. 
 
The consolidated unaudited financial results includes the interim financial statements/ financial   
information/   financial results of   subsidiaries and   jointly controlled 
entities which have not been reviewed/audited by their auditors, whose interim financial 
statements/  financial  information/  financial  results  reflect  total  assets138of  Rs. as at and  
total revenue  of  Rs. And Rs.   and total net profit/(loss) after tax of Rs.    And Rs.
  for the quarter ended  and for the  period from to
  ,respectively, and cash flows (net) 139of Rs.  for the period  from to
   , as conside red in the consolidated unaudited financial results.  
The consolidated unaudited financial results also includes the Group’s share of net profit/(loss) 
after tax of Rs. And Rs. for the quarter ended    and for  the  
period from  to    , respectively, as considered in the consolidated unaudited 
financial results, in respect of associates, based on their interim financial statements/ financial 
information/ financial results which have not been reviewed/audited by their auditors. According 
to the information  and explanations given to us by the Management, these interim financial 
statements / financial information / financial results are not material to the Group. 
 
Our conclusion on the Statement is not modified in respect of the above matter140. 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
134 When component’s financial statements/ financial information/ financial results are not prepared under an accounting framework used by 
the parent or as per group accounting policies, para similar to that provided under Other Matters paragraph of Illustrat ion 2 of Appendix I to 
the Guidance Note on Audit of Consolidated Financial Statements issued by the ICAI may need to be reported as required by paragraph 52 
of the said Guidance Note 
135 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements 
136 To be given on half yearly basis with effect from April 1, 2019 
137 Where applicable 
138 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements. 
139 To be given on half yearly basis with effect from April 1, 2019 
140 Use this paragraph only when the unaudited financial statements / financial information / financial results of the subsidiari es / jointly 
controlled entities / associates are not material to the Group.

[Page 126]
Page 126 of 291 
 
 
 
For XYZ&Co. 
Chartered Accountants 
 
Signature                                                                
(Name of the member signing the audit report) 
(Designation)141 
(Membership Number) 
Place of signature  
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
141 Partner or proprietor, as the case may be.

[Page 127]
Page 127 of 291 
 
Exhibit B4: When an Unmodified Opinion is expressed on consolidated audited quarterly and 
year to date Financial Results (for Banks)  
Illustrative Format of Independent Auditor’s Report (Unmodified Opinion) on consolidated audited 
quarterly and year to date Financial Results of the Bank Pursuant to the Regulation 33 of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015  
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF........................ 
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Results   
Opinion  
 
We have audited the accompanying Statement of Consolidated Financial Results of .......... (Name 
of the bank) (“the Bank”/the parent) and its subsidiaries(the parent and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as “the Group”), its associates and jointly controlled entities for the quarter ended 
_____and for the period from_____ to______ (“the Stat ement”), being submitted by the Bank 
pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended (“LODR Regulations”)142 except for the disclosures 
relating to consolidated Pillar 3  disclosure as at _________, including leverage ratio and liquidity 
coverage ratio under Basel III Capital Regulations as have been disclosed on the Bank's website 
and in respect of which a link has been provided in the Financial Results and have not been audited 
by us. Attention is drawn to the fact that the consolidated Financial Results/Financial information for 
the corresponding quarter ended ____ and the corresponding period from______ to______, as 
reported in these Financial Results have been approved by the Bank’s Board of Directors but have 
not been subjected to audit/review143.  
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and 
based on the consideration of the reports of the other auditors on separat e audited financial 
statements/financial results/financial information of, subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled 
entities, the aforesaid Financial Results:  
a.  include the results of the following entities : (to indicate list of entities included  in the 
consolidation);  
 
b. are presented in accordance with the requirements of Regulation 33 of the LODR Regulations 
except for the disclosures relating to consolidated Pillar 3 disclosure as at _________, including 
leverage ratio and liquidity coverage ra tio under Basel III Capital Regulations as have been 
disclosed on the Bank's website and in respect of which a link has been provided in the Financial 
Results and have not been audited by us; and  
c. give a true and fair view, in conformity with the applicable accounting standards, RBI guidelines 
and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated net profit/loss144 
                                                           
142 Regulations includes relevant circulars issued by SEBI from time to time.  
143 As applicable (for example, in the first financial year of a newly listed company, or when consolidated quarterly Financial R esults are 
submitted for the first time pursuant to the mandatory requirement with effect from April 1, 2019, and no quarterly consolida ted Financial 
Results were submitted in the previous year).  
144 As applicable.

[Page 128]
Page 128 of 291 
 
and other financial information of the Group for the quarter ended ………and for the period 
from_____ to______.  
 
Basis for Opinion  
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 
143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013. (“Act”) /issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India145. Our responsibilities under those  Standards are further described in the Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Results  section of our report. We are 
independent of the Group, its associates and jointly controlled entities in accordance with the Code 
of Eth ics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated Financial Results, and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We 
believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and other auditors in terms of their reports referred to 
in “Other Matter” paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion.  
 
[Insert Emphasis of Matter Paragraph]146 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.  
Board of Directors’ Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Results  
 
These Consolidated Financial Results have been compiled from the audited consolidated inter im 
financial statements/ financial information.  
The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these 
consolidated Financial Results that give a true and fair view of the net profit/ loss 147 and other 
financial information of the Group including its associates and jointly controlled entities in accordance 
with the recognition and measurement principles laid down in Accounting Standard 25 (AS 25) / 
Indian Accounting Standard 34 (Ind AS 34) “Interim Financial Reporting” specified under section 133 
of the Act / issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India148, the relevant provisions of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the circulars, guidelines and directions issued by the Reserve Bank 
of India (RBI) from time to time (“RBI Guidelines”) and other accounting principles generally accepted 
in India and in compliance with Regulation 33 of the LODR Regulations. The respective Board of 
Directors of the entities included in the Group and of its associates and jointly controlled entities are 
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act/Banking Regulations Act, 1949 for safeguarding of the assets of the Group and for preventing 
and detecting frauds and other irregula rities; selection and application of appropriate accounting 
policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating 
effectively for ens uring accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the 
                                                           
145 In the case of a Bank, which is not incorporated as a Company.  
146 If applicable, based on facts and circumstances of the engagement.  
147 As applicable.  
148 In the case of a Bank, which is not incorporated as a Company.

[Page 129]
Page 129 of 291 
 
preparation and presentation of the consolidated Financial Results that give a true and fair view and 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error which have b een used for the 
purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial results by the Directors of the Bank, as aforesaid.  
In preparing the consolidated Financial Results, the respective  Board of Directors of the entities 
included in the Group and of its associates and jointly controlled entities are responsible for 
assessing the ability of the Group and of its associates and jointly controlled entities to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to 
cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.  
The respective Board of Directors of the entities included in the Group and of its associates and 
jointly controlled entities are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of the Group 
and of its associates and jointly controlled entities. 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Results  
 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated Financial Results 
as a whole are free fro m material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated Financial Results.  
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:  
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated Financial Results, 
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, 
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatem ent resulting from fraud is higher than for one 
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.  
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audi t in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the Bank’s internal control.  
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors.  
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its 
associates and jointly controlled entities to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the consolidated Financial Results or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify 
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its associate s 
and jointly controlled entities to cease to continue as a going concern.

[Page 130]
Page 130 of 291 
 
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated Financial Results, 
including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated Financial Results represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.  
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial results/financial information 
of the entities within the Group and its associates and jointly controll ed entities to express an 
opinion on the consolidated Financial Results. We are responsible for the direction, supervision 
and performance of the audit of financial information of such entities included in the consolidated 
financial results of which we are the independent auditors. For the other entities included in the 
consolidated Financial Results, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors 
remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by 
them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.   
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Bank and such other entities included 
in the consolidated Financial Results of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among 
other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.  
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have c omplied with 
relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all 
relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.  
We also performed procedures in accordance with the circular issued by the SEBI under Regulation 
33(8) of the LODR Regulations, as amended, to the extent applicable.  
Other Matters  
 
The consolidated Financial Results include the audited Financial Results of ______ subsidiarie s, 
____ associates and _______ jointly controlled entities, whose interim Financial 
Statements/Financial Results/ financial information reflect Group’s share of total assets 149 of Rs. 
_____ as at ______ , Group’s share of total revenue of Rs. _____and Rs. ______ and Group’s share 
of total net profit/(loss) after tax of Rs. ______and Rs. _____for the quarter ended_______ and for 
the period from_____ to______ respectively, as considered in the consolidated Financial Results, 
which have been audited by their res pective independent Auditors. The independent auditors’ 
reports on interim financial statements/Financial Results/financial information of these entities have 
been furnished to us and our opinion on the consolidated Financial Results, in so far as it relates to 
the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these entities, is based solely on the report of 
such auditors and the procedures performed by us are as stated in paragraph above.  
 
The consolidated Financial Results include the unaudited Financial Results of ______ subsidiaries, 
____ associates and _______ jointly controlled entities, whose interim Financial 
Statements/Financial Results/ financial information reflect Group’s share of total assets 150 of 
Rs._____ as at ______ , Group’s share of total revenue of Rs. _____and Rs._______ and Group’s 
share of total net profit/(loss) after tax of Rs. ______and Rs. ______ for the quarter 
ended__________ and for the period from_____ to______ respectively, as consid ered in the 
consolidated Financial Results.  These unaudited interim Financial Statements/Financial Results/ 
                                                           
149 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements. 
150 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements.

[Page 131]
Page 131 of 291 
 
financial information have been furnished to us by the Board of Directors and our opinion on the 
consolidated Financial Results, in so far as it rel ates to the amounts and disclosures included in 
respect of these subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities is based solely on such 
unaudited interim Financial Statements/Financial Results/financial information. In our opinion and 
according to the information and explanations given to us by the Board of Directors, these interim 
Financial Statements/Financial Results / financial information are not material to the Group.  
 
Our opinion on the consolidated Financial Results is not modified in res pect of the above matters 
with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors and the Financial 
Results/financial information certified by the Board of Directors. 
For XYZ & Co.  
Chartered Accountants  
(Firm’s Registration No.)  
 
 
Signature   
(Name of the member signing the audit report)  
(Designation)151 
(Membership Number)  
UDIN  
 
Place of signature:  
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
151 Partner or proprietor, as the case may be

[Page 132]
Page 132 of 291 
 
Exhibit B5: Illustrative format of independent auditor’s report (unmodified opinion) on the 
annual consolidated Financial Results under Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (for Banks)  
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
 
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF ........................  
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Results   
Opinion  
We have audited the accompanying Statement of Consolidated Financial Results of .......... (Name 
of the bank) (“the Bank”/the parent) and its subsidiaries (the parent and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as “the Group”), its associates and jointly controlled entities, for the year ended ________ 
(“the Statement”), being submitted by the Bank pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 33 of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended (“ LODR 
Regulations”)152 except for the disclosures relating to consolidated Pillar 3 disclosure as at 
_________, including leverage ratio and liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III Capital Regulations 
as have been disclosed on the Bank's website and in respect of which a link has been provided in 
the Financial Results and have not been audited by us. Attention is drawn to the fact  that the 
consolidated Financial Results/Financial information for the corresponding year ended ____ as 
reported in these Financial Results have been approved by the Bank’s Board of Directors but have 
not been subjected to audit/review153.  
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and 
based on the consideration of the reports of the other auditors on separate audited financial 
statements/financial results/financial information of, subsid iaries, associates and jointly controlled 
entities, the aforesaid Financial Results:  
a. include the financial results of the following entities: (to indicate list of entities included in the 
consolidation);  
b. are presented in accordance with the requirements of Regulation 33 of the LODR Regulations 
except for the disclosures relating to consolidated Pillar 3 disclosure as at _________, including 
leverage ratio and liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III Capital Regulations as have been 
disclosed on the Bank's website and in respect of which a link has been provided in the Financial 
Results and have not been audited by us; and  
c. give a true and fair view, in conformity with the applicable accounting standards, RBI guidelines 
and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated net profit/loss154 
and other financial information of the Group for the year ended ________.  
 
                                                           
152 Regulations includes relevant circulars issued by SEBI from time to time.  
153 As applicable (for example, in the first financial year of a newly listed company, or when consolidated quarterly Financial Resul ts are 
submitted for the first time pursuant to the mandatory requirement with effect from April 1, 2019, and no quarterly consolid ated Financial 
Results were submitted in the previous year).  
154 As applicable.

[Page 133]
Page 133 of 291 
 
Basis for Opinion  
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 
143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013. (“Act”) /issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India155. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Resu lts section of our report. We are 
independent of the Group, its associates and jointly controlled entities in accordance with the Code 
of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated Financial Results, and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We 
believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and other auditors in terms of their reports referred to 
in “Other Matter” paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  
 
[Insert Emphasis of Matter Paragraph]156 
 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.  
Board of Directors’ Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Results  
 
These Consolidated Financial Results have been compiled from the consolidated Annual audited 
financial statements.   
The  bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these 
consolidated Financial Results that give a true and fair view of the consolidated net profit/ loss 157 
and other financial information of the Group including its associates and jointly controlled entities in 
accordance with the Accounting Standards/ Indian Ac counting Standards specified under section 
133 of the Act / issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 158, the relevant provisions 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the circulars, guidelines and directions issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) from time to time (“RBI Guidelines”) and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India and in compliance with Regulation 33 of the LODR Regulations. The respective 
Board of Directors of the entities included in the Group and of its associ ates and jointly controlled 
entities are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act/Banking Regulations Act, 1949 for safeguarding of the assets of the Group and 
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operatin g 
effectively for ensuring accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the 
preparation and presentation of the consolidated Financial Results that give a true and fair view and 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error which have been used for the 
purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial results by the Directors of the Bank, as aforesaid.  
In preparing the consolidated Financial Results, the respective Board of Directors of the entities 
included in t he Group and of its associates and jointly controlled entities are responsible for 
assessing the ability of the Group and of its associates and jointly controlled entities to continue as 
                                                           
155 In the case of a Bank, which is not incorporated as a Company.  
156 If applicable, based on facts and circumstances of the engagement.  
157 As applicable.  
158 In the case of a Bank, which is not incorporated as a Company.

[Page 134]
Page 134 of 291 
 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to 
cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.  
The respective Board of Directors of the entities included in  the Group and of its associates and 
jointly controlled entities are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of the Group 
and of its associates and jointly controlled entities.  
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Results  
 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated Financial Results 
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in  the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated Financial Results.  
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:  
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated Financial Results, 
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, 
and obtain audit evid ence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one 
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.  
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the Bank’s internal control. [OR] Under Section 143(3)(i) of the 
Companies Act 2013, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the bank 
has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls.  
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors.  
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its 
associates and jointly controlled entities to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the consolidated Financial Results or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify 
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its associate s 
and jointly controlled entities to cease to continue as a going concern.  
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated Financial Results, 
including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated Financial Results represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.  
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial results/financial information 
of the entities within the Group and its associates and jointly controll ed entities to express an 
opinion on the consolidated Financial Results. We are responsible for the direction, supervision

[Page 135]
Page 135 of 291 
 
and performance of the audit of financial information of such entities included in the consolidated 
financial results of which we are the independent auditors. For the other entities included in the 
consolidated Financial Results, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors 
remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by 
them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.   
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Bank and such other entities included 
in the consolidated Financial Results of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among 
other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.  
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have c omplied with 
relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all 
relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.  
We also performed procedures in accordance with the circular issued by the SEBI under Regulation 
33(8) of the LODR Regulations, as amended, to the extent applicable.  
Other Matters  
The consolidated Financial Results include the audited Financial Results of ______ subsidiaries , 
____ associates and _______ jointly controlled entities, whose Financial Statements/Financial 
Results/ financial information reflect Group’s share of total assets 159 of Rs. _____ as at ______ , 
Group’s share of total revenue of Rs. _____and Rs. ______ and Group’s share of total net 
profit/(loss) after tax of Rs. ______and Rs. ______ for the quarter and year ended__________ 
respectively, as considered in the consolidated Financial Results, which have been audited by their 
respective independent Auditors. The independent auditors’ reports on financial statements/financial 
results/financial information of these entities have been furnished to us and our opinion on the 
consolidated Financial Results, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures include d in 
respect of these entities, is based solely on the report of such auditors and the procedures performed 
by us are as stated in paragraph above.  
 
The consolidated Financial Results include the unaudited Financial Results of ______ subsidiaries, 
____ as sociates and _______ jointly controlled entities, whose Financial Statements/Financial 
Results/ financial information reflect Group’s share of total assets160 of  
Rs._____ as at ______ , Group’s share of total revenue of Rs. _____and Rs._______ and Group’s 
share of total net profit/(loss) after tax of Rs. ______and Rs. ______ for the quarter and year 
ended__________ respectively, as considered in the consolidated Financial Results. These 
unaudited Financial Statements/Financial Results/ fi nancial information have been furnished to us 
by the Board of Directors and our opinion on the consolidated Financial Results, in so far as it relates 
to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, associates and jointly 
controlled entities is based solely on such unaudited Financial Statements/Financial 
Results/financial information. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given 
to us by the Board of Directors, these Financial Statements/Financial Results / financial information 
are not material to the Group.  
                                                           
159 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements.  
160 Figures for total assets to be reported when balance sheet is also presented with the income statements.

[Page 136]
Page 136 of 291 
 
Our opinion on the consolidated Financial Results is not modified in respect of the above matters 
with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors and the Financial 
Results/financial information certified by the Board of Directors. 
The Financial Results include the results for the quarter ended ___________ being the balancing 
figure between the audited figures in respect of the full financial year and the published u naudited 
year to date figures up to the third quarter of the current financial year which were subject to limited 
review by us.161 
OR  
The Financial Results include the results for the quarter ended ___________ being the balancing 
figure between the audited figures in respect of the full financial year and the published audited year 
to date figures up to the third quarter of the current financial year162.  
 
For XYZ & Co.  
Chartered Accountants  
(Firm’s Registration No.)  
 
Signature   
(Name of the member signing the audit report)  
(Designation)163 
(Membership Number)  
UDIN  
 
Place of signature:  
Date:   
                                                           
161 Use this paragraph where the quarters were subjected to a limited review.  
162 Use this paragraph where the quarters were audited.  
163 Partner or proprietor, as the case may be.

[Page 137]
Page 137 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 12 
 
164[***] 
 
                                                           
164Omitted “Annexure 12”, as same has become part of Integrated Filing (Financial), pursuant to the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular.

[Page 138]
Page 138 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 13 
 
165[***] 
 
                                                           
165 Omitted “Annexure 13”, as same has become part of Integrated Filing (Financial), pursuant to the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is 
incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular.

[Page 139]
Page 139 of 291 
 
166[Annexure 13A  
 
(A) Minimum information to the Audit Committee for approval of Related Party Transactions: 
 
The listed entity shall provide the following information, for review by the audit committee for approval 
of a proposed RPT: 
 
a. Type, material terms and particulars of the proposed transaction; 
 
b. Name of  the   related  party  and  its  relationship  with  the  listed  entity  or  its  subsidiary, 
including nature of its concern or interest (financial or otherwise); 
 
c. Tenure of the proposed transaction (particular tenure shall be specified); 
 
d. Value of the proposed transaction; 
 
e. The percentage of the listed entity’s annual consolidated turnover, for the immediately 
preceding financial year, that is represented by the value of the proposed transaction (and for 
a RPT involving a subsidiary, such percentage calculated on the basis of the subsidiary’s annual 
turnover on a standalone basis shall be additionally provided); 
 
f. If the transaction relates to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made 
or given by the listed entity or its subsidiary: 
 
i. details of the source of funds in connection with the proposed transaction; 
ii. where any financial indebtedness is incurred to make or give loans, intercorporate 
deposits, advances or investments, 
 nature of indebtedness; 
 cost of funds; and 
 tenure; 
 
(Note: The  requirement of disclosure in Sr. no. i. and ii. above, is not applicable to listed 
banks/NBFCs/insurance companies/housing finance companies) 
 
iii. applicable terms, including covenants, tenure, interest  rate  and  repayment schedule, 
whether secured or unsecured; if secured, the nature of security; and 
 
 
 
iv. the purpose for which the funds will be utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of such funds 
pursuant to the RPT. 
 
g. Justification as to why the RPT is in the interest of the listed entity; 
                                                           
166 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/135 dated October 13, 2025

[Page 140]
Page 140 of 291 
 
h. A copy of the valuation or other external party report, if any such report has been relied upon; 
i. Percentage of the counter-party’s annual consolidated turnover that is represented by the value 
of the proposed RPT on a voluntary basis; 
 
j. Any other information that may be relevant. 
 
(B) Minimum information to the Shareholders for approval of Related Party Transactions: 
 
The notice being sent to the shareholders seeking approval for any proposed RPT shall, in addition 
to the requirements  under  the  Companies  Act,  2013, include  the  following information as a part 
of the explanatory statement:  
 
a. A  summary  of the  information  provided  by  the  management  of  the  listed  entity  to  the 
audit committee as specified in paragraph 4 of this Section; 
 
b. Justification for why the proposed transaction is in the interest of the listed entity;  
 
c. Where the  transaction  relates  to  any  loans,  inter -corporate  deposits,  advances  or 
investments  made  or  given  by  the  listed  entity  or  its  subsidiary,   the  details  specified 
under para 4(f) above;  
 
d. A statement that the valuation or other external report, if any, relied upon by the listed entity  
in  relation  to  the  proposed  transaction  will  be  made available  through  the registered 
email address of the shareholders;  
 
e. Percentage of the counter -party’s annual consolidated turnover that is represented by the 
value of the proposed RPT, on a voluntary basis;  
 
f. Any other information that may be relevant. 
 
********]

[Page 141]
Page 141 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 14 
 
167[***] 
 
 
                                                           
167 Omitted “Annexure 14”, as same has become part of Integrated Filing (Financial), pursuant to the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is 
incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular.

[Page 142]
Page 142 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 15 
 
FORMAT FOR THE ANNUAL SECRETARIAL COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
 
(On the letter head of the Practicing Company Secretary)  
 
Secretarial compliance report of [●] [Name of the listed entity] for the year ended 
________   
 
 
I/We……………. have examined:  
(a) all the documents and records made available to us and explanation provided by [●] [Name 
of the listed entity] (“the listed entity”),  
(b) the filings/ submissions made by the listed entity to the stock exchanges,  
(c) website of the listed entity,  
(d) any other document/ filing, as may be relevant, which has been relied upon to make this 
certification,  
 
for the year ended [●] (“Review Period”) in respect of compliance with the provisions of :  
 
(a) the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (“SEBI Act”) and the Regulations, 
circulars, guidelines issued thereunder; and  
(b) the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (“SCRA”), rules made there under and 
the Regulations, circulars, guidelines issued thereunder by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (“SEBI”);   
 
The specific Regulations, whose provisions and the circulars/ guidelines issued thereunder, have 
been examined, include:-  
(a) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015;  
(b) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018;  
(c) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;  
(d) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;   
(e) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Be nefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021;  
(f) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non -Convertible 
Securities) Regulations, 2021; 
(g) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015;  
(h) …………(other regulations as applicable)  
 
and circulars/ guidelines issued thereunder;

[Page 143]
Page 143 of 291 
 
(Note: The aforesaid list of Regulations is only illustrative. The list of all SEBI Regulations, as may be 
relevant and applicable to the listed entity for the review period, shall be added.)  
and based on the above examination, I/We hereby report that, during the Review Period:  
 
(a) The listed entity has complied with the provisions of the above Regulations and circulars/ 
guidelines issued thereunder, except in respect of matters specified below:-  
 
Sr. 
No. 
Compliance 
Requiremen
t 
(Regulation
s/ circulars/ 
guidelines 
including 
specific 
clause) 
Regulation
/ Circular 
No. 
Deviation
s 
Action 
Taken 
by 
Type of Action 
Details 
of 
Violatio
n 
Fine 
Amoun
t 
Observation
s/ Remarks 
of the 
Practicing 
Company 
Secretary 
Manageme
nt 
Response 
Remark
s 
          
Advisory/Clarification/Fine/S
how Cause Notice/ Warning, 
etc. 
          
 
(b) The listed entity has taken the following actions to comply with the observations made in 
previous reports: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Observations/ 
Remarks of the 
Practicing 
Company 
Secretary in 
the previous 
reports 
Observations made in 
the secretarial 
compliance report for 
the year ended ….. 
(the years are to be 
mentioned) 
Compliance Requirement 
(Regulations/circulars/guidelines 
including specific clause)  
Details of violation / 
deviations and 
actions taken / 
penalty imposed, if 
any, on the listed 
entity 
Remedial 
actions, if 
any, 
taken by 
the listed 
entity 
Comments 
of the PCS 
on the 
actions 
taken by 
the listed 
entity 
            
 
(Note:   
1. Provide the list of all the observations in the report for the previous year along with the actions 
taken by the listed entity on those observations.   
2. Add the list of all observations in the reports pertaining to the periods prior to the previous year 
in case the entity has not taken sufficient steps to address the concerns raised/ observations.  
 
E.g. In the report for the year ended 31st Mar, 2023, the PCS shall provide a list of:  
• all the observations in the report for the year ended 31st Mar, 2022 along with the actions 
taken by the listed entity on those observations.  
• the observations in the reports pertaining to the year ended 31 st Mar,2022 and earlier, 
in case the entity has not taken sufficient steps to address the concerns raised/ observations 
in those reports.)

[Page 144]
Page 144 of 291 
 
 
(c) I/we hereby report that, during the review period the compliance status of the listed entity with 
the following requirements: 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Particulars Compliance 
status 
(Yes/No/NA) 
Observations/ 
Remarks by 
PCS* 
1.  Secretarial Standards:  
 
The compliances of the listed entity are in accordance with the 
applicable Secretarial Standards (SS) issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries India (ICSI). 
 
  
2.  Adoption and timely updation of the Policies: 
 
• All applicable policies under SEBI Regulations are adopted with 
the approval of board of directors of the listed entities 
• All the policies are in conformity with SEBI Regulations and has 
been reviewed & timely updated as per the 
regulations/circulars/guidelines issued by SEBI. 
 
  
3.  Maintenance and disclosures on Website: 
 
• The Listed entity is maintaining a functional website  
• Timely dissemination of the documents/ information under a 
separate section on the website 
• Web-links provided in annual corporate governance reports under 
Regulation 27(2) are accurate and specific which re-directs to the 
relevant document(s)/ section of the website 
 
  
4.  Disqualification of Director: 
 
None of the Director of the Company are disqualified under Section 
164 of Companies Act, 2013 
 
  
5.  Details related to Subsidiaries of listed entities: 
 
(a) Identification of material subsidiary companies  
(b) Requirements with respect to disclosure of material as well as 
other subsidiaries 
 
  
6.  Preservation of Documents: 
 
The listed entity is preserving and maintaining records as prescribed 
under SEBI Regulations and disposal of records as per Policy of 
Preservation of Documents and Archival policy prescribed under the 
LODR Regulations. 
 
 
  
7.  Performance Evaluation: 
 
The listed entity has conducted performance evaluation of the 
Board, Independent Directors and the Committees at the start of 
every financial year as prescribed in SEBI Regulations. 
 
  
8.  Related Party Transactions:

[Page 145]
Page 145 of 291 
 
 
(a) The listed entity has obtained prior approval of Audit Committee 
for all Related party transactions  
(b) In case no prior approval obtained, the listed entity shall provide 
detailed reasons along with confirmation whether the 
transactions were subsequently approved/ratified/rejected by 
the Audit committee. 
9.  Disclosure of events or information: 
 
The listed entity has provided all the required disclosure(s) under 
Regulation 30 along with Schedule III of the LODR Regulations 
within the time limits prescribed thereunder. 
 
  
10.  Prohibition of Insider Trading: 
 
The listed entity is in compliance with Regulation 3(5) & 3(6) SEBI 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. 
 
  
11.  Actions taken by SEBI or Stock Exchange(s), if any: 
 
No actions taken against the listed entity/ its promoters/ directors/ 
subsidiaries either by SEBI or by Stock Exchanges (including under 
the Standard Operating Procedures issued by SEBI through various 
circulars) under SEBI Regulations and circulars/ guidelines issued 
thereunder (or) 
 
The actions taken against the listed entity/ its promoters/ dir ectors/ 
subsidiaries either by SEBI or by Stock Exchanges are specified in 
the last column.  
 
  
12.  Resignation of statutory auditors from the listed entity or its material 
subsidiaries 
 
In case of resignation of statutory auditor from the listed entity or 
any of its material subsidiaries during the financial year, the listed 
entity and / or its material subsidiary(ies) has / have complied with 
paragraph 6.1 and 6.2 of section V-D of chapter V of the Master 
Circular on compliance with the provisions of the LODR Regulations 
by listed entities.  
 
  
13.  No additional non-compliances observed: 
 
No additional non -compliance observed for any of the SEBI 
regulation/circular/guidance note etc. except as reported above. 
 
  
*Observations/Remarks by PCS are mandatory if the Compliance status is provided as ‘No’ or ‘NA’  
 Place:        
  Signature:   
  Date:                                                 
 
  Name of the Practicing Company Secretary   
  ACS/   FCS No.:   
   CP No.:

[Page 146]
Page 146 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 16 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING FORMAT 
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 
I. Details of the listed entity 
 
1. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity 
2. Name of the Listed Entity 
3. Year of incorporation 
4. Registered office address 
5. Corporate address 
6. E-mail 
7. Telephone 
8. Website 
9. Financial year for which reporting is being done  
10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed 
11. Paid-up Capital  
12. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person who may be contacted in case 
of any queries on the BRSR report 
13. Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only 
for the entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form a part 
of its consolidated financial statements, taken together). 
14. 168[Name of assessment or assurance provider  
15. Type of assessment or assurance obtained]  
 
II. Products/services 
 
16. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover): 
 
S. No. 
 
Description of Main 
Activity  
 
Description of 
Business Activity 
% of Turnover of the  entity 
    
    
17. Products/Services sold by the entity(accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover): 
 
S. No. Product/Service NIC Code 
                                                           
168 Substituted with the issuance of SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2025/42 dated Mar 28, 2025. Prior to its substitution Points 14 and 15 
read as under: 
“14. Name of assurance provider 
15. Type of assurance obtained”

[Page 147]
Page 147 of 291 
 
% of total Turnover 
contributed 
    
    
    
 
 
 
III. Operations 
 
18. Number of locations whereplants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated: 
 
Location Number of plants Number of offices Total 
National    
International     
19. Markets served by the entity: 
 
a. Number of locations 
 
Locations Number 
National (No. of States)  
International (No. of Countries)  
 
b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?  
 
c. A brief on types of customers  
 
IV. Employees 
20. Details as at the end of Financial Year: 
 
a. Employees and workers (including differently abled):  
 
S. 
No. 
Particulars Total 
(A) 
Male  Female  
No. (B) %  (B / A) No. (C) % (C / A) 
EMPLOYEES 
1.  Permanent (D)

[Page 148]
Page 148 of 291 
 
S. 
No. 
Particulars Total 
(A) 
Male  Female  
No. (B) %  (B / A) No. (C) % (C / A) 
2.  Other than 
Permanent (E)  
     
3.  Total 
employees  
(D + E) 
     
WORKERS 
4.  Permanent (F)      
5.  Other than 
Permanent (G)  
     
6.  Total workers  
(F + G) 
     
b. Differently abled Employees and workers: 
 
S. 
No 
Particulars Total 
(A) 
Male Female  
No. (B) %  (B / A) No. (C) % (C / A) 
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES 
1.  Permanent (D)      
2. Other than 
Permanent (E)  
     
3. Total differently 
abled employees  
(D + E) 
     
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS 
4. Permanent (F)      
5. Other than 
permanent (G) 
     
6. Total differently 
abled workers  
(F + G) 
     
 
21. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women  
 
 Total  
(A) 
No. and percentage of Females 
No. (B) % (B / A) 
Board of Directors    
Key Management 
Personnel 
   
22. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers  
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)

[Page 149]
Page 149 of 291 
 
 
 FY _____ 
(Turnover rate in current FY) 
FY _____ 
(Turnover rate in 
previous FY) 
FY _____ 
(Turnover rate in the 
year prior to the 
previous FY) 
Male Female Total  Male Female Total Male Female Total 
Permanent 
Employees 
         
Permanent 
Workers 
         
V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures) 
23. (a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures 
 
S. 
No.  
 
Name of the 
holding / 
subsidiary / 
associate 
companies  / 
joint ventures 
(A) 
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/Joint 
Venture 
 
% of shares 
held by 
listed entity 
Does the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/No)  
     
VI. CSR Details 
24.    (i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No)  
(ii) Turnover (in Rs.) 
(iii) Net worth (in Rs.) 
 
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances 
 
25. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines 
on Responsible Business Conduct:

[Page 150]
Page 150 of 291 
 
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received  
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in Place 
(Yes/No)  
(If Yes, 
then 
provide 
web-link 
for 
grievance 
redress 
policy) 
FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
 
 
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year 
Remarks 
 
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year 
Remarks 
Communities        
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders) 
       
Shareholders        
Employees 
and workers 
       
Customers        
Value Chain 
Partners 
       
Other (please 
specify) 
       
26. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues 
 
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to 
environmental and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for 
identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per 
the following format  
S. No. Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether risk or 
Rationale for 
identifying the 
In case of risk, 
approach to 
Financial 
implications of 
the risk or

[Page 151]
Page 151 of 291 
 
opportunity 
(R/O) 
risk / 
opportunity 
adapt or 
mitigate 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)

[Page 152]
Page 152 of 291 
 
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES 
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put  in 
place towards adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements. 
Disclosure                                               
Questions 
P 
1 
P 
2 
P 
3 
P 
4 
P     
5 
P 
6 
P 
7 
P      
8 
P      
9 
Policy and management processes 
1. a. Whether your entity’s policy/policies 
cover each principle and its core elements 
of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No) 
         
b. Has the policy been approved by the 
Board? (Yes/No)          
c. Web Link of the Policies, if available           
2. Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures. (Yes / No)          
3. Do the enlisted policies extend to your 
value chain partners? (Yes/No)          
4. Name of the national and international 
codes/certifications/labels/ standards (e.g. 
Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, 
Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g. 
SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your 
entity and mapped to each principle.  
         
5. Specific commitments, goals and targets 
set by the entity with defined timelines, if 
any. 
         
6. Performance of the entity against the 
specific commitments, goals and targets 
along-with reasons in case the same are 
not met. 
         
Governance, leadership and oversight 
7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG 
related challenges, targets and achievements ( listed entity has flexibility regarding the 
placement of this disclosure) 
8. Details of the highest authority responsible 
for implementation and oversight of the 
Business Responsibility policy (ies). 
 
9. Does the entity have a specified 
Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). If  
yes, provide details.

[Page 153]
Page 153 of 291 
 
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:  
Subject for Review Indicate whether review was 
undertaken by Director / 
Committee of the Board/ 
Any other Committee 
Frequency 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Any other – please 
specify)  
 P 
1 
P 
2 
P 
3 
P 
4 
P     
5 
P 
6 
P 
7 
P      
8 
P      
9 
P 
1 
P 
2 
P 
3 
P 
4 
P     
5 
P 
6 
P 
7 
P      
8 
P      
9 
Performance against 
above policies and 
follow up action 
                  
Compliance with 
statutory requirements 
of relevance to the 
principles, and, 
rectification of any 
non-compliances 
                  
 
11. Has the entity carried out independent 
assessment/ evaluation of the working of 
its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes,  provide name of the 
agency. 
P 
1 
P 
2 
P 
3 
P 
4 
P     
5 
P 
6 
P 
7 
P      
8 
P      
9 
         
 
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to 
be stated:  
Questions P   
1 
P    
2 
P    
3 
P   
4 
P     
5 
P   
6 
P   
7 
P      
8 
P      
9 
The entity does not consider the Principles material to 
its business (Yes/No)           
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to 
formulate and implement the policies on specified 
principles (Yes/No)  
         
The entity does not have the financial or/human and 
technical resources available for the task (Yes/No)           
It is planned to be done in the next financial year 
(Yes/No)           
Any other reason (please specify)           
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE

[Page 154]
Page 154 of 291 
 
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and 
Core Elements with key processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” 
and “Leadership”. Whi le the essential indicators are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is 
mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed by entities which 
aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, envi ronmentally and ethically 
responsible. 
 
PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with 
integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable. 
 
Essential Indicators 
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the 
financial year: 
Segment Total number of 
training and 
awareness 
programmes held 
Topics / 
principles 
covered under 
the training and 
its impact 
%age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness 
programmes 
Board of 
Directors 
   
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel 
   
Employees 
other than 
BoD and 
KMPs 
   
Workers    
 
2. Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in 
proceedings (by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following format  (Note: the entity shall make 
disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website) :  
 
Monetary 
 NGRBC 
Principle 
Name of the 
regulatory/enforcement 
agencies/ judicial 
institutions 
Amount 
(In INR) 
Brief of the 
Case  
Has an appeal 
been 
preferred? 
(Yes/No)

[Page 155]
Page 155 of 291 
 
Penalty/ Fine      
Settlement      
Compounding 
fee  
     
 Non-Monetary 
 NGRBC 
Principle 
Name of the 
regulatory/enforcement 
agencies/ judicial 
institutions 
Brief of the 
Case 
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)  
Imprisonment     
Punishment     
3. Of the instances disclosed in Question2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases 
where monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed. 
Case Details  Name of the regulatory/enforcement 
agencies/ judicial institutions 
 
  
4. Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and 
if available, provide a web-link to the policy.   
5. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by 
any law enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption: 
 FY _____ 
(Current Financial 
Year) 
FY _____ 
(Previous Financial Year) 
Directors   
KMPs   
Employees    
Workers   
6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:  
 FY _____ 
(Current Financial Year) 
FY _____ 
(Previous Financial Year) 
 Number Remarks Number Remarks

[Page 156]
Page 156 of 291 
 
Number of complaints 
received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of 
Interest of the Directors 
    
Number of complaints 
received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of 
Interest of the KMPs 
    
 
7. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties 
/ action taken by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of 
corruption and conflicts of interest. 
8. Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services 
procured) in the following format: 
 
 FY _____ 
(Current Financial Year) 
FY _____ 
(Previous Financial Year) 
Number of days of 
accounts payables 
  
 
9. Open-ness of business  
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related 
parties along -with loans and advances  & investments, with related parties, in the following 
format: 
Parameter Metrics FY _____ 
(Current Financial 
Year) 
FY _____ 
(Previous 
Financial Year) 
Concentration 
of Purchases 
a. Purchases from trading 
houses as % of total 
purchases  
  
b. Number of trading 
houses where 
purchases are made 
from 
 
  
c. Purchases from top 10 
trading houses as % of

[Page 157]
Page 157 of 291 
 
total purchases from 
trading houses 
Concentration 
of Sales 
a. Sales to dealers / 
distributors as % of 
total sales  
  
b. Number of dealers / 
distributors to whom 
sales are made 
 
  
c. Sales to top 10 dealers 
/ distributors as % of 
total sales to dealers / 
distributors 
  
Share of RPTs 
in 
 Purchases(Purchases 
with related parties / 
Total Purchases) 
  
 Sales (Sales to related 
parties / Total Sales) 
  
 Loans & advances 
(Loans & advances 
given to related parties 
/ Total loans & 
advances)  
  
 Investments 
( Investments in related 
parties / Total 
Investments made) 
  
 
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the 
financial year: 
 
Total number of awareness 
programmes held 
Topics / principles 
covered under the 
training 
%age of value chain 
partners covered (by value 
of business done with such 
partners) under the 
awareness programmes 
   
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members 
of the Board? (Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same.

[Page 158]
Page 158 of 291 
 
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner 
that is sustainable and safe 
Essential Indicators 
1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to 
improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex 
investments made by the entity, respectively. 
 
 Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year Details of improvements 
in environmental and 
social impacts 
R&D    
Capex    
2. a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No) 
b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?  
 
3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and 
disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste 
and (d) other waste. 
 
4. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). 
If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) 
plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same. 
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for 
manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the 
following format? 
 
NIC Code 
 
Name of 
Product 
/Service 
 
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed 
 
Boundary for 
which the Life 
Cycle 
Perspective / 
Assessment was 
conducted  
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No) 
Results 
communicated in 
public domain 
(Yes/No) 
If yes, provide the 
web-link.  
      
 
2. If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production 
or disposal of your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments 
(LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate 
the same.

[Page 159]
Page 159 of 291 
 
Name of Product / 
Service 
Description of the risk / 
concern 
Action Taken 
   
   
   
 
3. Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production 
(for manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry).  
 
Indicate input material Recycled or re-used input material to total material 
FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
   
 
4. Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products,  amount (in metric tonnes) 
reused, recycled, and safely disposed, as per the following format:  
 
 FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
Re-Used Recycled Safely 
Disposed Re-Used Recycled Safely 
Disposed 
Plastics 
(including 
packaging) 
      
E-waste        
Hazardous 
waste 
      
Other waste
  
      
 
5. Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each 
product category. 
 
Indicate product category Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 
as % of total products sold in respective category

[Page 160]
Page 160 of 291 
 
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all 
employees, including those in their value chains 
Essential Indicators 
1. a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:  
 
Category  
% of employees covered by 
Total 
(A) 
 
Health 
insurance 
Accident 
insurance 
Maternity 
benefits 
Paternity 
Benefits 
Day Care 
facilities 
Number 
(B) 
%  (B / 
A) 
Number(C) % (C / 
A) 
Number(D) % (D / 
A) 
Number(E) % (E / 
A) 
Number(F) % (F / 
A) 
Permanent employees 
Male             
Female             
Total            
Other than Permanent employees 
Male             
Female             
Total            
b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers: 
 
Category  
% of workers covered by 
Total 
(A) 
 
Health 
insurance 
Accident 
insurance 
Maternity 
benefits 
Paternity 
Benefits 
Day Care 
facilities 
Number 
(B) 
%  (B / 
A) 
Number(C) % (C / 
A) 
Number(D) % (D / 
A) 
Number(E) % (E / 
A) 
Number(F) % (F / 
A) 
Permanent workers 
Male             
Female            
Total            
Other than Permanent workers 
Male             
Female             
Total            
 
c. Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and 
other than permanent)in the following format – 
 FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
Cost incurred on well -
being measures as a % of

[Page 161]
Page 161 of 291 
 
total revenue of the 
company 
 
2. Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year. 
 
Benefits 
FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of 
total 
employees  
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers  
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.) 
No. of 
employees  
covered as 
a % of 
total 
employees 
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total 
workers 
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.) 
PF       
Gratuity       
ESI       
Others – 
please 
specify 
      
 
3. Accessibility of workplaces 
 
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as 
per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps 
are being taken by the entity in this regard. 
 
4. Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
Act, 2016? If so, provide a web-link to the policy.  
 
5. Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental 
leave. 
 
 Permanent employees Permanent workers 
Gender Return to work 
rate 
Retention rate Return to work 
rate 
Retention rate 
Male     
Female     
Total     
 
6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of 
employees and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.

[Page 162]
Page 162 of 291 
 
 Yes/No 
(If Yes, then give details of the 
mechanism in brief)   
Permanent Workers   
Other than Permanent Workers   
Permanent Employees  
Other than Permanent Employees  
 
7. Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity: 
 
Category FY _____ 
(Current Financial Year) 
FY _____ 
(Previous Financial Year) 
Total 
employees / 
workers in 
respective 
category  
(A) 
 
No. of employees / 
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union 
(B) 
% (B / A) Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category 
(C) 
 
 
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union 
(D) 
% (D / C) 
Total 
Permanent 
Employees 
      
- Male       
- Female       
Total 
Permanent 
Workers 
      
- Male       
- Female       
 
8. Details of training given to employees and workers: 
Category FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
Total 
(A) 
 
On Health 
and safety 
measures   
On Skill 
upgradation 
Total 
(D) 
On Health and 
safety measures   
On Skill upgradation 
No. 
(B) 
% (B 
/ A) 
No. 
(C) 
% (C / 
A) 
No. 
(E) 
% (E / D) No. (F) % (F / D) 
Employees 
Male            
Female           
Total           
Workers 
Male           
Female           
Total           
 
9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:

[Page 163]
Page 163 of 291 
 
Category FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
Total 
(A) 
 
No. (B) % (B / A) Total 
(C) 
No. (D) % (D / C) 
Employees 
Male       
Female       
Total       
Workers 
Male       
Female       
Total       
 
10. Health and safety management system: 
a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by 
the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage such system?  
b. What are the processes used to identify work -related hazards and assess risks on a routine 
and non-routine basis by the entity?  
c. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove 
themselves from such risks. (Y/N)  
d. Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non -occupational medical and 
healthcare services? (Yes/ No) 
 
11. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format: 
 
Safety Incident/Number Category* FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 
(LTIFR) (per one million -person 
hours worked) 
Employees   
Workers   
Total recordable work -related 
injuries 
Employees   
Workers   
No. of fatalities  Employees   
Workers   
High consequence work -related 
injury or ill -health (excluding 
fatalities) 
Employees   
Workers   
*Including in the contract workforce 
 
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.  
 
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:

[Page 164]
Page 164 of 291 
 
 FY _____ 
(Current Financial Year) 
FY _____ 
(Previous Financial Year) 
 
 
 
Filed during 
the year 
 
 
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year 
Remarks 
 
Filed during 
the year 
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year Remarks 
Working 
Conditions 
      
Health & 
Safety 
      
 
14. Assessments for the year: 
 % of your plants and offices that were assessed (by 
entity or statutory authorities orthird parties) 
Health and safety practices  
Working Conditions  
 
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if 
any) and on significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and 
working conditions. 
 
 
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of 
(A) Employees (Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N). 
 
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted 
and deposited by the value chain partners. 
 
3. Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work -related 
injury / ill-health / fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in 
suitable employment: 
  
Total no. of affected employees/ 
workers 
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members 
have been placed in suitable employment 
 FY _____ 
(Current 
Financial Year) 
FY _____ 
(Previous 
Financial Year) 
FY _____ 
(Current Financial 
Year) 
FY _____ 
(Previous Financial 
Year) 
Employees      
Workers

[Page 165]
Page 165 of 291 
 
4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and 
the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? 
(Yes/ No) 
 
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
 % of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed 
Health and safety practices  
Working Conditions  
 
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns 
arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain 
partners. 
 
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive 
to all its stakeholders 
Essential Indicators 
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity. 
2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with 
each stakeholder group.  
 
Stakeholder 
Group 
 
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group 
(Yes/No) 
Channels of 
communication 
(Email, SMS, 
Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community 
Meetings, 
Notice Board, 
Website), Other 
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ 
Quarterly / 
others – please 
specify)  
 
Purpose and scope 
of engagement 
including key 
topics and 
concerns raised 
during such 
engagement 
      
    
 
Leadership Indicators 
 
1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, 
environmental, and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such 
consultations provided to the Board.

[Page 166]
Page 166 of 291 
 
2. Whether stakeholder  consultation is used to support the identification and management of 
environmental, and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs 
received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the 
entity.  
 
3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of 
vulnerable/ marginalized stakeholder groups.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights 
Essential Indicators 
 
1. Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) 
of the entity, in the following format:  
Category FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
Total (A) 
 
No. of employees 
/ workers covered 
(B) 
% (B / A) Total (C) No. of 
employees / 
workers covered 
(D) 
% (D / C) 
Employees 
Permanent        
Other than 
permanent  
      
Total Employees        
Workers 
Permanent       
Other than 
permanent  
      
Total Workers       
 
2. Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format: 
 
Category FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
Total (A) 
 
Equal to 
Minimum Wage 
More than 
Minimum Wage 
Total 
(D) 
Equal to 
Minimum Wage 
More than 
Minimum Wage

[Page 167]
Page 167 of 291 
 
No. 
(B) 
% (B / A) No. 
(C) 
% (C / A) No. 
(E) 
% (E / D) No. 
(F) 
% (F / D) 
Employees 
Permanent           
Male           
Female           
Other than 
Permanent 
          
Male           
Female           
Workers 
Permanent           
Male           
Female           
Other than 
Permanent 
          
Male           
Female           
 
 
3. Details of remuneration/salary/wages 
a. Median remuneration / wages: 
 Male Female 
Number Median remuneration/ salary/ wages 
of respective category 
Number Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category 
Board of Directors 
(BoD) 
    
Key Managerial 
Personnel 
    
Employees other 
than BoD and 
KMP 
    
Workers     
 
b. Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format: 
 FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
Gross wages paid to 
females as % of total wages 
  
 
4. Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights 
impacts or issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No) 
 
5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.  
 
6. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:

[Page 168]
Page 168 of 291 
 
 FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
 
 
 
Filed during 
the year 
 
 
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year 
Remarks 
 
Filed 
during the 
year 
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year 
Remarks 
Sexual Harassment       
Discrimination at 
workplace 
      
Child Labour       
Forced 
Labour/Involuntary 
Labour 
      
Wages       
Other human rights 
related issues 
      
 
7. Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013, in the following format: 
 
 FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
Total Complaints reported under  
Sexual Harassment on of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013(POSH)  
  
Complaints on POSH as a % of 
female employees / workers  
  
Complaints on POSH upheld   
 
8. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and 
harassment cases. 
 
9. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No) 
 
10. Assessments for the year: 
 % of  your plants and offices that were assessed (by 
entity or statutory authorities or third parties) 
Child labour   
Forced/involuntary labour   
Sexual harassment  
Discrimination at workplace

[Page 169]
Page 169 of 291 
 
Wages  
Others – please specify  
 
11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns 
arising from the assessments at Question 10 above.  
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights 
grievances/complaints.  
2. Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted. 
 
3. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements 
of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
 
4. Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
 % of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed 
Sexual Harassment  
Discrimination at workplace  
Child Labour  
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour  
Wages  
Others – please specify  
 
5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns 
arising from the assessments at Question 4 above.

[Page 170]
Page 170 of 291 
 
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and 
restore the environment 
Essential Indicators 
1. Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following 
format: 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. 
Parameter FY _____ (Current 
Financial Year) 
FY ______ (Previous 
Financial Year) 
From renewable sources 
Total electricity consumption (A)   
Total fuel consumption (B)   
Energy consumption through other sources 
(C) 
  
Total energy consumed from renewable 
sources (A+B+C) 
  
From non-renewable sources 
Total electricity consumption (D)   
Total fuel consumption (E)   
Energy consumption through other sources (F)   
Total energy consumed from non -
renewable sources (D+E+F) 
  
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)   
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from 
operations) 
  
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total  energy consumed / Revenue from 
operations adjusted for PPP) 
  
Energy intensity in terms of physical output   
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity

[Page 171]
Page 171 of 291 
 
2. Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the 
Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose 
whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been 
achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any. 
 
3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format: 
 
Parameter FY _____  
(Current Financial Year) 
FY ______ 
(Previous Financial 
Year) 
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres) 
(i) Surface water   
(ii) Groundwater   
(iii) Third party water   
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water   
(v) Others    
Total volume of water withdrawal (in 
kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v) 
  
Total volume of water consumption (in 
kilolitres)  
  
Water intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total water consumption / Revenue from 
operations) 
  
Water intensity per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) 
(Total  water consumption / Revenue from 
operations adjusted for PPP) 
  
Water intensity  in terms of physical 
output 
  
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity 
  
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.

[Page 172]
Page 172 of 291 
 
4. Provide the following details related to water discharged: 
Parameter FY _____  
(Current Financial 
Year) 
FY ______ 
(Previous Financial 
Year) 
 
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres) 
(i) To Surface water   
- No treatment   
- With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment 
  
(ii) To Groundwater   
- No treatment   
- With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment 
  
(iii) To Seawater   
- No treatment   
- With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment 
  
(iv) Sent to third-parties    
- No treatment   
- With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment 
  
(v) Others   
- No treatment   
- With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment 
  
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)    
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. 
 
5. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its 
coverage and implementation. 
 
6. Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following 
format:

[Page 173]
Page 173 of 291 
 
Parameter Please specify 
unit 
FY _____  
(Current Financial 
Year) 
FY ______ 
(Previous Financial 
Year) 
NOx    
SOx    
Particulate matter (PM)    
Persistent organic 
pollutants (POP) 
   
Volatile organic 
compounds (VOC) 
   
Hazardous air pollutants 
(HAP) 
   
Others– please specify    
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. 
 
7. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the 
following format:  
Parameter Unit FY _____  
(Current Financial 
Year) 
FY ______ 
(Previous Financial Year) 
Total Scope 1 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if 
available) 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent 
  
Total Scope 2 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if 
available) 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent 
  
Total Scope 1 and Scope 
2emission intensity per rupee 
of turnover 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions/ Revenue from 
operations)

[Page 174]
Page 174 of 291 
 
Parameter Unit FY _____  
(Current Financial 
Year) 
FY ______ 
(Previous Financial Year) 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 
2emission intensity per rupee 
of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions / Revenue from 
operations adjusted for PPP) 
   
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emission intensity in terms of 
physical output 
   
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emission intensity (optional)– 
the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity 
   
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. 
 
8. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide 
details.  
 
9. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format: 
Parameter FY _____  
(Current Financial Year) 
FY ______ 
(Previous Financial 
Year) 
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes) 
Plastic waste (A)   
E-waste (B)   
Bio-medical waste (C)   
Construction and demolition waste 
(D) 
  
Battery waste (E)   
Radioactive waste (F)   
Other Hazardous waste. Please 
specify, if any.  (G) 
  
Other Non -hazardous waste 
generated (H). Please specify, if any. 
(Break-up by composition i.e. by 
materials relevant to the sector)

[Page 175]
Page 175 of 291 
 
Parameter FY _____  
(Current Financial Year) 
FY ______ 
(Previous Financial 
Year) 
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)    
Waste intensity per rupee of 
turnover 
(Total waste generated / Revenue 
from operations) 
  
Waste intensity per rupee of 
turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total waste generated / Revenue 
from operations adjusted for PPP) 
  
Waste intensity in terms of 
physical output 
  
Waste intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity 
  
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re -using or other 
recovery operations (in metric tonnes) 
Category of waste 
(i) Recycled   
(ii) Re-used   
(iii) Other recovery operations   
Total    
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric 
tonnes) 
Category of waste   
(i) Incineration   
(ii) Landfilling   
(iii) Other disposal operations   
Total   
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. 
 
10. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the 
strategy adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your 
products and processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes. 
 
11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, 
wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation

[Page 176]
Page 176 of 291 
 
zones etc.) where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the 
following format: 
S. 
No. 
Location of 
operations/offices 
Type of operations Whether the conditions of environmental 
approval / clearance are being complied 
with? (Y/N) 
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective 
action taken, if any. 
    
    
12. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on 
applicable laws, in the current financial year: 
Name and brief details of 
project 
EIA 
Notification 
No. 
Date Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No) 
Results 
communicated 
in public 
domain  
(Yes / No) 
Relevant 
Web 
link 
      
      
13. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such 
as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 
Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N).  If not, provide details of all such non -
compliances, in the following format: 
 
S. No. Specify the law / 
regulation / 
guidelines which was 
not complied with 
Provide 
details of 
the non -
compliance 
Any fines / 
penalties / action 
taken by regulatory 
agencies such as 
pollution control 
boards or by courts 
Corrective action 
taken, if any 
     
     
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres): 
 
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:  
(i) Name of the area 
(ii) Nature of operations 
(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:

[Page 177]
Page 177 of 291 
 
Parameter FY _____ (Current Financial 
Year) 
FY ______ (Previous 
Financial Year) 
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres) 
(i) Surface water   
(ii) Groundwater   
(iii) Third party water   
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water   
(v) Others    
Total volume of water withdrawal (in 
kilolitres) 
  
Total volume of water consumption (in 
kilolitres)  
  
Water intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Water consumed / turnover) 
  
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity 
  
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres) 
(i) Into Surface water   
- No treatment   
- With treatment – please specify level 
of treatment 
  
(ii) Into Groundwater   
- No treatment   
- With treatment – please specify level 
of treatment 
  
(iii) Into Seawater   
- No treatment   
- With treatment – please specify level 
of treatment 
  
(iv) Sent to third-parties    
- No treatment   
- With treatment – please specify level 
of treatment 
  
(v) Others   
- No treatment   
- With treatment – please specify level 
of treatment 
  
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)    
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.

[Page 178]
Page 178 of 291 
 
2. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format: 
 
Parameter Unit FY _____  
(Current Financial Year) 
FY ______ 
(Previous Financial 
Year) 
Total Scope 3 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH 4, N 2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, if available) 
Metric 
tonnes of 
CO2 
equivalent 
  
Total Scope 3 emissions 
per rupee of turnover 
   
Total Scope 3 emission 
intensity (optional)– the 
relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity 
   
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. 
 
3. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators 
above, provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiver sity in such 
areas along-with prevention and remediation activities.  
 
4. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to 
improve resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge /  waste 
generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the 
following format: 
 
Sr. No Initiative undertaken  Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, 
may be provided along-with summary) 
Outcome of the 
initiative  
 
    
 
5. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 
words/ web link. 
6. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the 
entity. What mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.

[Page 179]
Page 179 of 291 
 
7. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were 
assessed for environmental impacts. 
 
8. 169[How many Green Credits have been generated or procured:  
a. By the listed entity 
b. By the top ten (in terms of value of purchases and sales, respectively) value chain partners] 
 
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and 
regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and 
transparent 
                                                           
169 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2025/42 dated Mar 28, 2025 
 
Essential Indicators 
1. a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations. 
b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on  the total 
members of such body)the entity is a member of/ affiliated to. 
 
S. No. Name of the trade and industry chambers/ 
associations 
Reach of trade and industry 
chambers/ associations 
(State/National) 
1   
2   
3   
4   
5   
6   
7   
8   
9   
10   
 
 
2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti -competitive 
conduct by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.  
 
Name of authority  Brief of the case Corrective action taken  
    
  
 
Leadership Indicators

[Page 180]
Page 180 of 291 
 
PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable 
development 
Essential Indicators 
1. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on 
applicable laws, in the current financial year. 
 
Name and brief details of 
project 
SIA 
Notification 
No. 
Date of 
notification 
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No) 
Results 
communicated 
in publ ic 
domain  
(Yes / No) 
Relevant 
Web 
link 
      
      
 
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is 
being undertaken by your entity, in the following format: 
 
S. 
No. 
Name of Project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing  
State  District  No. of Project 
Affected 
Families (PAFs)  
% of PAFs 
covered by 
R&R  
Amounts 
paid to PAFs 
in the FY (In 
INR) 
       
       
 
3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.   
 
1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity: 
S. No. Public policy 
advocated 
 
Method resorted 
for such advocacy 
 
Whether 
information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)  
Frequency of 
Review by 
Board 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / 
Others – 
please specify)  
Web Link, 
if 
available

[Page 181]
Page 181 of 291 
 
4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers: 
 
5. Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees 
or workers employed on a permanent or non -permanent / on contract basis) in the following 
locations, as % of total wage cost 
(Place to be categorized as per RBI Classification System - rural / semi-urban / urban / metropolitan) 
 
 
 FY _____ 
Current Financial 
Year 
FY _____ 
Previous 
Financial Year 
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers    
Directly from within India   
Location 
FY _____ 
Current Financial Year 
FY _____ 
Previous Financial Year 
Rural   
Semi-urban   
Urban   
Metropolitan   
Leadership Indicators 
1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social 
Impact Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above): 
 
Details of negative social impact identified  Corrective action taken  
   
 
2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated 
aspirational districts as identified by government bodies: 
 
S. No. State  Aspirational District  Amount spent (In INR) 
    
    
3. (a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from 
suppliers comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)  
(b) From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?  
(c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?

[Page 182]
Page 182 of 291 
 
4. Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by 
your entity (in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge: 
 
S. No. Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge 
 
Owned/ 
Acquired 
(Yes/No)  
Benefit 
shared  
(Yes / No) 
Basis of 
calculating 
benefit share  
     
     
5. Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual 
property related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved. 
 
Name of authority  Brief of the Case Corrective action taken  
    
  
6. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:  
S. No. CSR Project  No. of persons 
benefitted from CSR 
Projects  
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups

[Page 183]
Page 183 of 291 
 
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their 
consumers in a responsible manner 
Essential Indicators 
1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.  
2. Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that 
carry information about: 
 As a percentage to total turnover 
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product  
Safe and responsible usage  
Recycling and/or safe disposal  
3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:  
 FY _____  
(Current Financial 
Year) 
Remarks FY _____  
(Previous Financial Year) 
 
Remarks 
Received 
during 
the year 
Pending 
resolution 
at end of 
year 
Received 
during the 
year 
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year 
Data privacy       
Advertising       
Cyber-security       
Delivery of 
essential services 
      
Restrictive Trade 
Practices 
      
Unfair Trade 
Practices 
      
Other        
 
4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues: 
 Number Reasons for recall 
Voluntary recalls   
Forced recalls   
 
5. Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy?  
(Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link of the policy. 
 
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and 
delivery of essential services; cyber security and data  privacy of customers; re-occurrence of 
instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of 
products / services.

[Page 184]
Page 184 of 291 
 
7. Provide the following information relating to data breaches: 
a. Number of instances of data breaches  
b. Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers 
c. Impact, if any, of the data breaches 
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed 
(provide web link, if available).   
2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products 
and/or services.  
3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential 
services.  
4. Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated 
as per local laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry 
out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / se rvices 
of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)

[Page 185]
Page 185 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 17 
GUIDANCE NOTE FOR BRSR 
GENERAL GUIDANCE 
 
1. Inter-operability of reporting framework- Those listed entities which prepare and d isclose 
sustainability reports (as part of annual repor t) based on  internationally a ccepted reporting 
frameworks such as GRI, SASB, TCFD, Integrated Reporting, can cross-reference the disclosures 
made under such framework to the disclosures sought under the BRSR. Further, in case the data 
sought in the reporting format is already disclosed in the annual report, the listed entity can provide 
a cross-reference to the same. 
 
Thus, an entity need not disclose the same information twice in the annual report. However, the 
entity should specifically mention the page number of the annual report or sustainability report where 
the information sought under the BRSR format is disclosed as part of the report prepared based on 
internationally accepted reporting framework. 
 
2. Consistency in reporting boundary- The BRSR seeks disclosure of the reporting boundary i.e. 
whether the reporting is done for the entity on a stand-alone or consolidated basis (Reference: 
Question 13, Section A). Listed entities shall ensure consistency in reporting boundary across the 
report. 
 
 
3. Applicability- Some of the disclosures sought under the BRSR may not be applicable to certain 
industries, say the service industry. In such cases, the entity can state that such disclosure is not 
applicable along-with reasons for the same. 
 
 
4. The term “reporting period” refers to the financial year for which BRSR is being prepared . 
 
 
5. The listed entity should endeavour to provide clear, complete and concise responses. 
The web-links to the relevant document may be provided, if available . 
 
 
6. The information sought on complaints in the format are accompanied with a column of “Remarks” 
where entities can explain reasons for pending complaints (if any) or can give a brief on the nature 
of the complaints, wherever required 
 
 
7. With regard to disclosures relating to gender, the format specifies male and female, however in 
case the entity has employed persons who have not disclosed gender or belong to any other gender, 
a separate column of “Other” may be added for such disclosures.

[Page 186]
Page 186 of 291 
 
8. The term “Principles” refers to the Principles 1 to 9 as laid down in the National Guidelines for 
Responsible Business Conduct (available at  the following link: 
https://www.mca.gov.in/Ministry/pdf/NationalGuildeline_15032019.pdf). 
 
9. In addition to the disclosures sought under the format, the entity may disclose any other relevant 
sustainability related information at appropriate places. 
 
 
Note: This guidance note has been prepared using references from the National Guidelines for 
Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBCs), GRI sustainability reporting standards and various 
laws issued by the Government.

[Page 187]
Page 187 of 291 
 
II. SECTION A: GENERALDISCLOSURES  
 
Q. 
No. 
Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
16 Details of 
business 
activities 
The details of business activities shall be in line those given in Form MGT-
7 prescribed by MCA.  
 17 Products sold / 
services 
offered by the 
entity 
1. The entity shall disclose the top products manufactured or services 
provided by the listed entity that account for 90% of its turnover (in 
descending order) along -with the individual contribution of such 
products / services to the total turnover.  
 
2. The National Industrial Classification (NIC) codes are available at the 
following link: http://mospi.gov.in/classification/national-industrial-
classification/alphabetic-index-5digit 
 
20 Details of 
employees 
and workers 
1. The entity shall disclose the total number of employees and workers, 
along-with the associated break-up by gender (male / female) and into 
permanent / other than permanent.  
 
2. The term “Employee” is defined under Sec 2(l) of the Industrial 
Relations Code, 2020 and means, any person (other than an 
apprentice engaged under the Apprentices Act, 1961), employed on 
wages by an establishment to do any skilled, semi-skilled or unskilled, 
manual, operational, supervisory, managerial, administrative, 
technical or clerical work for hire or reward, whether the terms of 
employment be express or implied, and also includes a person 
declared to be an employee by the appropriate Government, but does 
not include any member of the Armed Forces of the Union. Ref - 
http://egazette.gov.in/WriteReadData/2020/222118.pdf 
 
3. The term “Worker” is defined under Sec 2(zr) of the Industrial 
Relations Code, 2020andmeans any person (except an apprentice as 
defined under clause (aa) of section 2 of the Apprentices Act, 1961) 
employed in any industry to do any manual, unskilled, skilled, 
technical, operational, clerical or supervisory work for hire or reward, 
whether the terms of employment be express or implied, and includes 
working journalists as defined in clause (f) of section 2 of the Working 
Journalists and other Newspaper Employees (Conditions of Service) 
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955  and sales promotion 
employees as defined in clause (d) of section 2 of the Sales 
Promotion Employees (Conditions of Service) Act, 1976, and for the 
purposes of any proceeding under this Code in relation to an industrial 
dispute, includes any such person w ho has been dismissed, 
discharged or retrenched or otherwise terminated in connection with, 
or as a consequence of, that dispute, or whose dismissal, discharge 
or retrenchment has led to that dispute, but does not include any such 
person -— 
(i) who is subject to the Air Force Act, 1950 (45 of 1950), or the 
Army Act, 1950 (46 of 1950), or the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 
1957); or

[Page 188]
Page 188 of 291 
 
(ii) who is employed in the police service or as an officer or other 
employee of a prison; or 
(iii) who is employed mainly in a managerial or administ rative 
capacity; or  
(iv) who is employed in a supervisory capacity drawing wages 
exceeding eighteen thousand rupees per month or an amount 
as may be notified by the Central Government from time to 
time. 
Ref.-http://egazette.gov.in/WriteReadData/2020/222118.pdf 
 
4. The term “permanent employee or “permanent worker” refers to an 
employee or worker, employed for full -time or part-time work, for an 
indeterminate period. The term “other than permanent  employee” or 
“other than permanent worker” refers to employees or workers who 
are employed for a fixed term that ends when a specific time period 
expires, or on completion of a specific task or an event such as the 
end of a project or return of a replaced  employee. “Other than 
permanent” employees or workers could be employed directly by the 
entity or through third party contractors. 
 
5. Differently abled employees / workers may be identified on the basis 
of the definition of “persons with disabilities” in The Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016 and rules made thereunder. 
 
6. The entity should provide details as at the end of the reporting period; 
however, in case there is any significant change in number of 
employees / workers from the beginning to the  end of the reporting 
period, the reasons for the same should be indicated. 
 
21 Participation / 
inclusion / 
representation 
of women 
(including 
differently 
abled) 
1. Board of Directors or Board as defined under Sec 2(10) of the 
Companies Act 2013, in relation to a company, means the collective 
body of the directors of the company.  
 
2. Key Management Personnel as defined under Sec 2(51) of the 
Companies Act 2013,in relation to a company, means— 
(i) the Chief Executive Officer or the managing director or the 
manager; 
(ii) the company secretary; 
(iii) the whole-time director; 
(iv) the Chief Financial Officer; and 
(v) such other officer as may be prescribed 
 
Reference- http://ebook.mca.gov.in/default.aspx 
 
22 Turnover rate 
for permanent 
employees 
and workers 
1. Under this field, the entity shall disclose turnover rates for the 
specified categories. 
 
2. The entity shall calcul ate the turnover rate for a financial year, for a 
particular category, based on the following formula: 
(No. of persons who have left the employment of the entity in the 
FY *100) / Average no. of persons employed in the category

[Page 189]
Page 189 of 291 
 
3. Average number of persons employed in a category shall be 
calculated as (Persons employed in the category at the beginning of 
FY + Persons employed in the category at the end of FY) / 2.  
Further, persons leaving the employment of the entity shall include 
those who leave the entity voluntarily or due to dismissal, termination, 
retirement or death in service. 
 
23 Holding / 
subsidiary / 
associate 
companies / 
joint ventures 
1. As defined under Sec 2(10) of the Companies Act 2013, " associate 
company", in relation to another company, means a company in which 
that other company  has a significant influence, but which is not a 
subsidiary company of the company having such influence and 
includes a joint venture company. 
Explanation—For the purpose of this clause— 
(a) the expression "significant influence" means control of at 
least twenty per cent of total voting power, or control of or participation 
in business decisions under an agreement; 
(b) the expression "joint venture" means a joint arrangement 
whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have 
rights to the net assets of the arrangement; 
2. As defined under Sec 2 (46) of the Companies Act 2013, holding 
company", in relation to one or more other companies, means a 
company of which such companies are subsidiary companies; 
Explanation—For the purposes of this clause, the expression 
"company" includes any body corporate. 
 
3. As defined under Sec 2(87) of the Companies Act 2013, subsidiary 
company or subsidiary, in relation to any other company (that is to say 
the holding company), means a company in which the holding 
company— 
(i) controls the composition of the Board of Directors; or 
(ii) exercises or controls more than one -half of the  total voting 
power either at its own or together with one or more of its subsidiary 
companies: 
Explanation—For the purposes of this clause, — 
(a) a company shall be deemed to be a subsidi ary company of the 
holding company even if the control referred to in sub -clause (i) or 
sub-clause (ii) is of another subsidiary company of the holding 
company; 
(b) the composition of a company's Board of Directors shall be 
deemed to be controlled by anoth er company if that other company 
by exercise of some power exercisable by it at its discretion can 
appoint or remove all or a majority of the directors; 
(c) the expression "company" includes any body corporate; 
(d) "layer" in relation to a holding company means its subsidiary or 
subsidiaries. 
 
Reference- http://ebook.mca.gov.in/default.aspx 
 
25 Grievance 
redressal 
1. Stakeholders are individuals or groups concerned or interested with 
or impacted by the activities of the businesses and vice-versa, now or

[Page 190]
Page 190 of 291 
 
mechanism for 
stakeholders 
in the future. Typically, stakeholders of a business include, but are not 
limited to, its investors, shareholders, employees and workers (and 
their families), customers, communitie s, value chain members and 
other business partners, regulators, civil society actors, and media. 
 
2. Grievance Redressal Mechanism refers to a  mechanism for any 
stakeholder individually or collectively to raise and resolve reasonable 
concerns affecting them without impeding access to other judicial or 
administrative remedies. The mechanism should be: 
 Transparent and unbiased governance structures 
 Accessible  
 Based on dialogue and mediation 
 
3. An organization’s value chain encompasses the full range of an 
organization’s upstream and downstream activities that convert input 
into output by adding value. It includes entities with which the 
organization has a direct or indirect business relationship and which 
either (a) supply products or services that contribu te to the 
organization’s own products or services, or (b) receive products or 
services from the organization. 
 
26 Overview of 
the entity’s 
material 
responsible 
business 
conduct and 
sustainability 
issues 
1. Sustainability as per National Guidelines on Respons ible Business 
Conduct is defined as the outcome achieved by balancing the social, 
environmental and economic impacts of business. It is the process 
that ensures that business goals are pursued without compromising 
any of the three elements. 
 
2. Under this section, the entity shall disclose the material responsible 
business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to 
environmental and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity 
to its business, along-with the following: 
 Classify the risk / opportunity as environment or social and provide 
its description. For instance, risk arising from climate change can 
include impact on operations, worker health, demand for products 
or services etc. Climate change opportunities can include cost 
savings through resource efficiency, development of new 
products and services, access to new markets etc.   
 Rationale for identifying the risk, which may include a description 
of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity. 
 In case of identified risks, approach to mitigate or adapt to the risk. 
 Indicate the positive and negative impact of such risk or 
opportunity on the financials of the company. The company shall 
make qualitative disclosures in this regard and should not include 
any forward looking quantitative information. However, in case of 
previous years, impact can be disclosed in quantitative terms. The 
entity may consider impact on parameters such as demand for 
products & services/ capital or operational costs/, investment 
opportunities etc.

[Page 191]
Page 191 of 291 
 
I. SECTION B:  MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES 
 
Q. No.  Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
5, 6 Specific commitments, 
goals and targets set by 
the entity along -with 
performance, if any 
1. Under this field, the entity may disclose if it has any specific 
commitment, goal or target against any of the principles. 
Such disclosures may include the following: 
 Baseline and context for goals and targets 
 Entities covered such as subsidiaries / associates / 
joint ventures / value chain partners  
 Expected result or outcome, in quantitative or 
qualitative terms 
 Expected timeline for achieving each goal and target 
 Whether goals and targets are mandatory (based on 
legislation) or voluntary. If they are mandatory, the 
organization should list the relevant legislation. 
 
2. The entity shall state the performance achieved against 
each goal or target. Any change in goals with regard to 
timelines, partial achievement of a goal or delay in 
achievement should also be specifically indicated, and 
where possible, with reasons. 
 
3. The entity need not strictly follow the tabular format for this 
disclosure. The issues for each principle can be covered in 
a running format. 
7. Statement by director 
responsible for the report 
for to highlight ESG 
issues 
1. The listed entity shall include a statement from the director 
who is responsible for preparation of the report, 
highlighting the relevance of sustainability to the 
organization. Such statement can include the following: 
 The overall vision and strategy of the organization for 
the short -term, medium -term, and long -term, with 
respect to managing the significant environmental and 
social impacts that the organization causes, 
contributes to, or that are directly linked to its activities, 
products or services  
 Strategic priorities and key topics f or the short and 
medium-term with respect to sustainability 
 Broader trends influencing the sustainability priorities 
of the entity  
 Key events, achievements, and failures during the 
reporting period 
 Views on performance with respect to targets 
 Outlook on t he organization’s main challenges and 
targets  
 Any other items pertaining to the organization’s 
strategic approach 
 
2. The listed entity can place this disclosure at the beginning 
of the report or under Section B. 
8. Highest authority 
responsible for 
1. For the policies disclosed at Question 1 of Section B, the 
entity shall disclose the highest executive authority in the

[Page 192]
Page 192 of 291 
 
implementation and 
oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy (ies) 
organization who is responsible for their implementation 
and hi ghest authority responsible for oversight. Such 
authority could be a director of the board, committee of the 
board, senior management personnel or a committee of 
employees.   
 
2. In case a committee is the highest authority, then the 
composition of the committee shall be disclosed, including 
the following: name of individuals, designation and in case 
of director, DIN and category (Chair / ED / NED / ID). 
 
3. In case an individual is the highest authority, the name, 
designation and in case of director, DIN and cat egory 
(Chair / ED / NED / ID) shall be disclosed. 
 
4. In case, different authorities are responsible for the 
implementation of different policies, the same may be 
indicated.  
  9 Does the entity have a 
specified Committee of 
the Board/ Director 
responsible f or decision 
making on sustainability 
related issues? (Yes / No) 
1. The entity shall indicate ‘Yes’ if it has a specified 
Committee of the Board or a director of the Board of the 
entity who is responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues.  
 
2. In case a Committee of the Board is responsible, its 
composition shall be disclosed, including the following: 
name of individual, designation and in case of director, DIN 
and category (Chair / ED / NED / ID). In case a director is 
responsible, DIN and category (Chair / ED / NED / ID) shall 
be disclosed. 
 
3. In case the response to this question is the same as that 
to question 8, the entity need not repeat its response and 
can cross-refer to the same.

[Page 193]
Page 193 of 291 
 
II. SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE 
 
PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner 
that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable. 
Essential Indicators 
Q. No. Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
2 Details of fines / penalties 
/punishment/ award/ compounding 
fees/ settlement amount 
Under this field, the entity shall make disclosures 
on the basis of materiality as specified in 
Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as 
disclosed on the entity’s website. 
4 Details of anti -corruption or anti -
bribery policy 
The disclosure on the anti-corruption or anti -
bribery policy may include the following: 
 Risk assessment procedures and internal 
controls 
 Mechanism to deal with complaints on bribery 
/ corruption 
 Coverage of trainings on anti-corruption issues  
Leadership Indicators 
Q. No. Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
2 Processes to avoid/ manage conflict 
of interests involving members of the 
Board/ KMPs  
1. Conflict of interest refers to a situation where 
an individual is  confronted with choosing 
between the requirements of his or her 
function and his or her own private interests. 
2. The entity shall disclose whether there are 
processes to ensure that conflict of interests 
involving members of the Board/ KMPs are 
avoided or managed along-with details of such 
processes.

[Page 194]
Page 194 of 291 
 
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable 
and safe 
Essential Indicators 
Q. 
No. Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
2. Sustainable 
sourcing 
1. “Sustainable Sourcing” essentially refers the integration of social, 
ethical and environmental performance factors into the process of 
selecting suppliers. 
 
2. Under this field, the entity shall indicate what proportion of its 
inputs (by quantity or value – please specify) are sourced from 
suppliers who are either covered by the company’s sustainable 
sourcing programmes and/or are certified to be compliant with 
social and environmental standards such as SA 8000, ISO 14001, 
OHSAS 18001 or relevant labels like Rainforest Alliance, 
Rugmark, RSPO etc. 
3. Processes in place 
to reclaim products 
for reuse, recycle 
and safe disposal of 
products at the end 
of life 
1. Reclaiming refers to collecting products and their packaging 
materials at the end of their useful lives, for reusing, or recycling 
or safe disposal. Reclaimed items can include products and their 
packaging materials that are collected by or on behalf of the 
organization, by a third-party contractor. 
 
2. Preparation for re -use means checking, cleaning, or repairing 
operations, by which products or components of products are 
prepared to be put to use for the same purpose for which they 
were conceived.  
 
3. Recycling refer s to reprocessing of products or components of 
products, to make new materials.  
 
4. Disposal refers to any operation which is not recovery. Further, 
safe disposal excludes uncontrolled waste disposal such as open 
burning and dumping. 
 
4. Extended Producer 
Responsibility 
(EPR) plan 
“Extended Producer Responsibility” means the responsibility of a 
producer for the environmentally sound management of the product 
until the end of its life. The Uniform Framework for Extended 
Producers Responsibility issued by the Ministry of Environment, 
Forest and Climate Change places responsibility on producers, 
importers and brand owners to establish a system for collecting back 
the plastic waste generated due to their products and submit a plan 
for such collection with the relevant Pollution Control Board(s) (details 
available at http://moef.gov.in/guideline-document-uniform-
framework-for-extended-producers-responsibility-under-plastic-
waste-management-rules-2016/).  
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Life cycle 
assessment 
1. Product Life Cycle refers to all the stages of a product from 
extraction or acquisition of raw materials through manufacturing

[Page 195]
Page 195 of 291 
 
and processing, distribution and transportation, use and reuse, 
recycling and disposal.  
In the case of services, it refers to all activities and processes from 
the design to delivery. 
 
2. Life cycle assessment is an analytical procedure that involves 
assessment of the potential environment or social impacts of a 
product or service, throughout its life cycle.  
 
3. Boundary of LCA refers t o the scope for which the assessment 
was conducted. For example, in the case of products, the 
boundary of LCA could be the following: 
 Cradle-to-grave is the full Life Cycle Assessment from 
resource extraction ('cradle') to use phase and disposal phase 
('grave'). 
 Cradle-to-cradle is a specific kind of cradle -to-grave 
assessment, where the end -of-life disposal step for the 
product is a recycling process. 
 Cradle-to-gate is an assessment of a partial product life cycle 
from resource extraction (cradle) to the f actory gate (i.e., 
before it is transported to the consumer). 
4.  
Recycled or reused 
input material as 
percentage of total 
input material 
For each category of input material, the percentage of re -used and 
recycled input material may be calculated as ((total recycled + re-used 
input material used)*100) divided by (total input material used to 
manufacture the entity’s products or to provide services). 
The entity may use the total weight or the total volume of materials, 
for calculating this field.  
6. 
Reclaimed products 
and their packaging 
materials (as 
percentage of 
products sold) for 
each product 
category. 
The entity shall calculate the perc entage of reclaimed products and 
their packaging materials for each product category using the 
following formula: 
Percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials = 
(Products and their packaging materials reclaimed within the 
reporting period) / (Products sold within the reporting period)

[Page 196]
Page 196 of 291 
 
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including 
those in their value chains 
Essential Indicators 
Q.N
o. 
Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
1 Measures for well-being of 
employees and workers 
In case the entity desires to disclose any benefits other than 
those specified in this field, additional columns may be added 
for such disclosures. 
3 Accessibility of workplaces 
 
Accessibility refers to physical accessi bility such as 
wheelchair ramps, braille signage and accessible restrooms, 
and digital accessibility, where information and 
communication technology is accessible to all and/or 
compatible with assistive technology devices. 
5 Return to work and Retention 
rates of permanent 
employees / workers that took 
parental leave 
1. Parental leave refers to maternity and paternity leave. 
 
2. The entity shall use the following formulas to calculate 
return to work rate, for each category of employee (male 
/ female / others): 
(Total number of employees that did return 
to work after parental leave in the reporting period * 100)/ 
(Total number of employees due to return to work 
after taking parental leave in the reporting period) = 
Return to work rate 
 
3. Retention rate determines wh o returned to work after 
parental leave ended and were still employed 12 months 
later. It shall be calculated using the following formula: 
(Total number of employees retained 12 months after 
returning to work following a period of parental leave * 
100)/ (Total number of employees returning from parental 
leave in the prior reporting period) 
8 Details of Training imparted to 
the employees and workers 
on health & safety measures 
and on skill upgradation 
 
 
1. Training on health and safety can include general training 
on health and safety as well as training on specific work-
related hazards, hazardous activities, or hazardous 
situations. It can also include training on mental health. 
 
2. Training programs on skill upgradation can include both 
internal training courses and funding support for external 
training or education. 
9 Details of performance and 
career development review 
imparted to employees and 
workers  
Regular performance and career development review refers 
to review based on criteria known to the employee / worker 
and his or her superior. Such a review is undertaken with the 
knowledge of the employee. 
10 Health and safety 
management system 
1. Occupational health and safety risk refers to the 
combination of the likelihood of occurrence of a work -
related hazardous situation or exposure, and the severity 
of injury or ill health that can be caused by the situation 
or exposure. An occupational health and safety system is 
a systematic approach to manage such risks.

[Page 197]
Page 197 of 291 
 
2. The listed entity shall disclose the proc esses used to 
identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a 
routine and non -routine basis. Work -related hazards 
refer to a source or situation with the potential to cause 
injury or ill health.  
11 Details of safety related 
incidents  
1. The listed entity shall calculate the Lost Time Injury 
Frequency Rate (LTIFR) as follows: 
(No. of lost time injuries in FY x 1,000,000) / (Total hours 
worked by all staff in same FY) 
 
2. Lost time is an indicator of the loss of productivity for an 
organization as a resu lt of a work -related injury or ill -
health. Work related injury and ill -health arise from 
exposure to hazards at work and are directly related to 
performance of work-related tasks.  
 
3. Recordable work-related injury or ill-health results in any 
of the following: death, days away from work, restricted 
work or transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond 
first aid, or loss of consciousness.  
Under this disclosure, the listed entity shall disclose the 
total number of employees / workers affected by work -
related injuries or ill-health, across all incidents during the 
reporting period and the prior year. In case the same 
employee or worker is injured multiple times, say thrice, 
in separate incidents, the same shall be reported as 3. 
 
4. The entity shall report the report the number of fatalities 
of employees / workers during the reporting period and 
the prior year, as a result of work-related injury. 
 
5. High consequence work-related injury or ill-health results 
in an injury from which the employee / worker cannot or 
is not expected to recover fully to the previous health 
status. This disclosure excludes fatalities. 
12 Measures taken by the entity 
to ensure a safe and healthy 
work place 
1. Under this disclosure, the entity shall report the 
measures taken to prevent or mitigate significant 
negative health and safety impacts that are directly linked 
to its operations, products or services. Also indicate 
whether these measures are taken for a s pecific set of 
activities, employees / workers or facilities of the entity.  
Leadership Indicators 
Q. 
No. Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
3 Rehabilitation and suitable 
employment of employees / 
workers  
1. Of the employees / workers having suffered high 
consequence injuries / ill -health, the listed entity shall 
disclose the number of employees/ workers rehabilitated 
or placed in suitable employment during the reporting 
period. This disclosure can also include family members 
of the affected employees / workers, who have been 
placed in suitable employment.

[Page 198]
Page 198 of 291 
 
 
2. ‘Rehabilitation’ refers to a process aimed at enabling 
persons with disabilities to attain and maintain optimal, 
physical, sensory, intellectual, psychological 
environmental or social function levels. 
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its 
stakeholders 
Essential Indicators 
Q. No.  Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
1 Process for identification of 
key stakeholders  
Under this field, the entity shall disclose the basis for 
determining stakeholders and determining the groups 
with whom to engage or not to engage. 
2 Key stakeholder groups 1. The listed entity shall specify the channels of 
through which stakeholders can access relevant 
information and if applicable, whether such 
information is available in regional / local 
languages. 
 
2. Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups refers to 
group of individuals who are unable to realize their 
rights or enjoy opportunities due to adverse 
physical, mental, social, economic, cultural, 
political, geographic or health circumstances. 
These groups in India can be identified on the 
basis, inter alia, of the following:  
 Gender and transgender (women, girls et al.)  
 Age (children, elderly et al.)  
 Descent/identity/ethnicity (caste, religion, 
scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, et al.)  
 Occupation (displaced, landless small / 
marginal farmers, migrant workers, et al.)  
 Persons with disability  
 Political or religious beliefs 
(Reference: National Guidelin es for Responsible 
Business Conduct, available at the following link: 
https://www.mca.gov.in/Ministry/pdf/NationalGuildelin
e_15032019.pdf) 
Leadership Indicators 
Q. No.  Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
2 Using stakeholder  
consultation to support the 
identification and 
management of 
environmental, and social 
topics. 
The entity can indicate if stakeholder engagement is 
used to support the identification and management of 
environmental, and social topics. If so, the entity can  
disclose the key concerns t hat have been raised 
through stakeholder engagement and how the 
organization has responded to this concern, including 
through changes or modifications in its policies or in 
its activities. 
For each concern, the entity should mention the 
stakeholder group that raised the concern.

[Page 199]
Page 199 of 291 
 
3 Details of instances of 
engagement with and actions 
taken to address the concerns 
of vulnerable/marginalized 
groups. 
The entity can disclose the key concerns that have 
been raised through engagement with 
vulnerable/marginalized groups and how the 
organization has responded to this concern, including 
through changes or modifications in its policies or in 
its activities. 
 
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights 
Essential Indicators 
Q. No.  Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
1 Training on human rights 
issues and policies 
Training programs on human rights issues and 
policies for employees and workers could include 
aspects of human rights that are relevant to 
operations, including the applicability of the human 
rights policies or procedures to the work done by 
employees / workers.  
3 Details of remuneration/ 
salary/ wages (including 
differently abled) 
1. Remuneration: As per Sec. 2(78) of Companies 
Act 2013, Remuneration means any money or its 
equivalent given or passed to any person for 
services rendered by him and includes 
perquisites as defined under the Income -Tax 
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961). 
Reference: http://ebook.mca.gov.in/default.aspx  
2. Salary: As per the Income Tax Act, 1961, salary 
includes: 
i. wages 
ii. any annuity or pension 
iii. any gratuity  
iv. any fees, commissions, perquisites or profits 
in lieu of or in addition to any salary or wages  
v. any advance of salary 
vi. the annual accretion to the balance at the 
credit of an employee participating in a 
recognised provident fund, to the extent to 
which it is chargeable to tax under Rule 6 of 
Part `A' of the Fourth Schedule; and 
vii. the aggregate of all sums that are comprised 
in the transferred balance as referred to in 
sub-rule (2) of Rule 11 of Part A of the Fourth 
Schedule of an employee participating in a 
recognised provident fund, to the extent to 
which it is chargeable to tax under sub -rule 
(4) thereof 
Ref-
https://www.incometaxindia.gov.in/Acts/Inco
me-
tax%20Act,%201961/1968/1021200000020
35669.htm

[Page 200]
Page 200 of 291 
 
3. Wages: As per Sec 2(y) of the Code on Wages, 
2019, Wages means all remuneration whether 
by way of salaries, allowances or otherwise, 
expressed in terms of money or capable of being 
so expressed which would, if  the terms of 
employment, express or implied, were fulfilled, 
be payable to a person employed in respect of 
his employment or of work done in such 
employment, and includes: 
i. basic pay 
ii. dearness allowance 
iii. retaining allowance, if any,  
but does not include  
a. any bonus payable under any law for the 
time being in force, which does not form part 
of the remuneration payable under the terms 
of employment 
b. the value of any house-accommodation, or of 
the supply of light, water, medical attendance 
or other amenity or of any service excluded 
from the computation of wages by a general 
or special order of the appropriate 
Government 
c. any contribution paid by the employer to any 
pension or provident fund, and the interest 
which may have accrued thereon 
d. any conveyance allowance or the value of 
any travelling concession 
e. any sum paid to the employed person to 
defray special expenses entailed on him by 
the nature of his employment 
f. house rent allowance 
g. remuneration payable under any award or 
settlement between the parties or order of  a 
court or Tribunal 
h. any overtime allowances 
i. any commission payable to the employee 
j. any gratuity payable on the termination of 
employment 
k. any retrenchment compensation or other 
retirement benefit payable to the employee 
or any ex gratia payment made to him on the 
termination of employment 
 
Provided that, for calculating the wages under this 
clause, if payments made by the employer to the 
employee under clauses (a) to (i) exceeds one-half, 
or such other per cent. as may be notified by the 
Central Government,  of the all remuneration 
calculated under this clause, the amount which 
exceeds such one-half, or the per cent. so notified,

[Page 201]
Page 201 of 291 
 
shall be deemed as remuneration and shall be 
accordingly added in wages under this clause 
Provided further that for the purpose of equal wages 
to all genders and for the purpose of payment of 
wages, the emoluments specified in clauses (d), (f), 
(g) and (h) shall be taken for computation of wage.  
Explanation: Where an employee is given in lieu of 
the whole or part of the wages payable  to him, any 
remuneration in kind by his employer, the value of 
such remuneration in kind which does not exceed 
fifteen per cent. of the total wages payable to him, 
shall be deemed to form part of the wages of such 
employee 
Ref- 
https://labour.gov.in/sites/default/files/THE%20CO
DE%20ON%20WAGES%2C%202019%20No.%20
29%20of%202019.pdf 
6 Disclosure of complaints 
made by employees and 
workers on sexual 
harassment, discrimination at 
workplace, Child Labour, 
Forced Labour/Involuntary 
Labour, Wages or other 
human rights related issues 
1. ‘Sexual Harassment’ includes any one or more 
of the following unwelcome acts or behaviour 
(whether directly or by implication) namely: 
i. physical contact and advances 
ii. a demand or request for sexual favours 
iii. making sexually coloured remarks 
iv. showing pornography 
v. any other unwelcome physical, verbal or 
non-verbal conduct of sexual nature 
 
2. ‘Discrimination’ refers to unjust or prejudicial 
treatment of people, especially on the grounds 
of, but not limited to, caste, creed, sex, race, 
ethnicity, age, colour, religion, disability, socio -
economic status or sexual orientation. 
3. As per Sec 2(ii) of the Child Labour (Prohibition 
& Regulation) Act, 1986 (as amended), ‘Child’ 
means a person who has not completed is 14th 
year of age.  It prohibits the employment of 
adolescents in the age group of 14 to 18 years 
in hazardous occupations and processes and 
regulates their working conditions where they 
are not prohibited.  
Ref- 
https://labour.gov.in/sites/default/files/act_3.pdf 
and https://labour.gov.in/whatsnew/child-labour-
prohibition-and-regulation-amendment-act-2016 
4. ‘Forced Labour’ or ‘Involuntary Labour’ refers to 
all work or service that is extracted under the 
menace of penalty. It also includes terms such 
as, bonded labour and modern slavery. It also 
includes any labour for which the w orker 
receives less than the government -stipulated 
minimum wage.

[Page 202]
Page 202 of 291 
 
PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the 
environment 
 
Essential Indicators 
Q. No.  Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
1.  Details of total energy 
consumption and 
energy intensity and 
Break-up of the total 
energy consumed 
from renewable and 
non-renewable 
sources 
1. The entity shall report the total electricity consumed, fuel 
consumed and energy consumed from other sources during 
the reporting period, as applicable. Entities may also specify 
the other sources, in case the same are significant. 
 
2. Under this field, the entity shall provide a break -up of 
electricity, fuel and other energy consumption, from 
renewable and non-renewable sources.  
 
3. Non-renewable energy sources are those that cannot be 
replenished, reproduced, grown or generated in a short time 
period through ecological cycles or agricultural processes. 
These include fuel distilled from petroleum or crude oil, such 
as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, and heating oil; natural gas, 
such as compressed natural gas (CNG), and liquefied 
natural gas (LNG); fuels extracted from natural gas 
processing and petroleum refining, such as butane, 
propane, and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG); coal; and 
nuclear power. 
 
4. Renewable energy sources are those that can be 
replenished in a short time through ecological cycles or 
agricultural processes. Renewable energy sources can 
include geothermal, wind, solar, hydro, and biomass. Energy 
can be purchased from sources external to the organization 
or produced by the organization itself (self-generated). If the 
organization generates electricity from a non -renewable or 
renewable fuel source and then consumes the generated 
electricity, the energy con sumption shall be counted only 
once. 
 
5. The above data shall be reported in terms of Joules or 
multiples such as Giga Joules. Entities should consistently 
apply conversion factors, for converting fuel consumption 
into Joules, for the data disclosed. In case,  different 
standards and methodologies are used, the same should be 
disclosed. Entities should also disclose any contextual 
information necessary to understand how the data has been 
compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, 
assumptions and/or calculation tools used. 
 
6. Energy intensity per rupee of turnover shall be calculated as 
the total energy consumed divided by the total turnover in 
rupees.

[Page 203]
Page 203 of 291 
 
7. Apart from turnover, entities may on a voluntary basis, 
provide energy intensity ratio, based on other metrics, such 
as: 
• units of product;  
• production volume (such as metric tons, litres, or MWh);  
• size (such as m2 floor space);  
• number of full-time employees 
2.  PAT scheme of the 
Government of India 
Perform Achieve and Trade (PAT) scheme (“Scheme”)  has 
been launched by Bureau of Energy Efficiency under the 
National Mission for Enhanced Energy Efficiency (NMEEE) 
[details available at the following link: 
https://beeindia.gov.in/content/pat-3]. Under the Scheme, 
certain sites / facilities are identified as designated consumers 
and targets are set for such entities in related to the energy 
consumption.  
3.  Details of total water 
withdrawn, consumed 
and water intensity 
ratio 
1. The entity shall report the total water withdrawn for any use, 
along-with a break-up of its source into the following: 
 Surface water- refers to water that occurs naturally on 
the Earth’s surface in ice sheets, ice caps, glaciers, 
icebergs, bogs, ponds, lakes, rivers, and streams 
 Ground water – refers to water that is being held in, and 
that can be recovered from, an underground formation 
 Third party water – refers to municipal water and other 
private suppliers of water 
 Sea-water / desalinated water – refers to water in a sea 
or ocean 
 Other sources - Entities may specify the other sources, 
in case the same are significant. 
 
2. The entity shall report the total water consumption. Total 
water consumption is a measure of water used by an 
organization, that it is no longer available for use by the 
ecosystem or local community, such as water that has been 
withdrawn and incorporated into products or has 
evaporated or is polluted to the point of being unusable by 
other users, and is therefore not released back to surface 
water, groundwater, seawater, or a third party. It also 
includes water that has been stored during the reporting 
period for use or discharge in a subsequent reporting 
period. 
If the entity cannot directly measure its water consumption, 
it may calculate this using the following formula:  
Total water consumption = Total water withdrawal – total 
water discharge. 
 
3. Water intensity per rupee of turnover shall be calculated as 
the total water consumed divided by the total turnover in 
rupees.

[Page 204]
Page 204 of 291 
 
4. Apart from turnover, entities may on a voluntary basis, 
provide water intensity ratio, based on other metrics, such 
as: 
• units of product;  
• production volume (such as metric tons, litres, or 
MWh);  
• size (such as m2 floor space);  
• number of full-time employees 
 
5. Entities should also disclose any contextual information 
necessary to understand how the data has been compiled, 
such as any standards, methodologies, assumptions and/or 
calculation tools used. 
 
4.  Details of water 
discharged 
1. The entity shall report the total water discharged i.e. the 
total effluents, water released (unused or after use) for 
which the organization has no further use, along -with a 
break-up by destination (to surface water, groundwater, 
seawater, sent to third parties or others – refer the guidance 
at Question 3 of Essential indicators under P6) and by level 
of treatment. 
 
2. The organization can break down its water discharge by the 
following treatment levels:  
 Primary treatment, which aims to remove solid 
substances that settle or float on the water surface;  
 Secondary treatment, which aims to remove 
substances and materials that have remained in the 
water, or are dissolved or suspended in it;  
 Tertiary treatment, which aims to upgrade water to a 
higher level of quality before it is discharged. It includes 
processes that remove, for example, heavy metals, 
nitrogen, and phosphorus.  
In case an organization withdraws and discharges water of 
good quality that does not require treatment, the same can 
be explained. 
 
3. Entities should also d isclose any contextual information 
necessary to understand how the data has been compiled, 
such as any standards, methodologies, assumptions and/or 
calculation tools used. 
 
5.  Zero Liquid Discharge 
policy  
A zero liquid discharge system involves using advanced waste-
water treatment technologies to recycle, recover and then re -
use the treated waste-water; towards ensuring that there is not 
discharge of the waste-water to the environment. 
6.  Disclosure of air 
emissions 
Entities should disclose any contextu al information necessary 
to understand how the data has been compiled, such as any 
standards, methodologies, assumptions and/or calculation 
tools used.

[Page 205]
Page 205 of 291 
 
7. Details of Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions 
and GHG intensity 
1. The term ‘green-house gas’ covers the following gases: 
 Carbon dioxide (CO2) 
 Methane (CH4) 
 Nitrous oxide (N2O) 
 Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) 
 Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) 
 Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) 
 Nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) 
 
2. Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources 
that are owned or controlled by the entity. Source refers to 
any physical unit or process that releases GHG into the 
atmosphere. Further, any emissions that are not physically 
controlled but result from intentional or unintentional 
releases of GHGs, such as eq uipment leakages, methane 
emissions (eg: from coal mines), shall also be included in 
the calculations. 
 
3. Scope 2 emissions are energy indirect emissions that result 
from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, 
heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the entity. 
 
4. Entities may, on a voluntary basis, provide a break-up of the 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3.  
 
5. The entity shall exclude any GHG trades (purchase, sale or 
transfer of GHG emissions) from the calculation of Scope 1 
and Scope 2 GHG emissions. 
 
6. The unit for the disclosures shall be metric tonnes of CO 2 
equivalent. Further, entities should disclose the standards, 
methodologies, assumptions and/or calculation tools used, 
including sources of the gl obal warming potential (GWP) 
rates and emission factors used. 
 
7. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of 
turnover shall be calculated as the total Scope 1 and Scope 
2 emissions generated divided by the total turnover in 
rupees.  
 
8. Apart from turnover, entities may on a voluntary basis, 
provide Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emission intensity ratio, 
based on other metrics, such as: 
• units of product;  
• production volume (such as metric tons, litres, or 
MWh);  
• size (such as m2 floor space);  
• number of full-time employees 
9. Details of waste 
generated, recycled & 
1. The entity shall report the total waste generated in its 
activities, with a break-up as per the categories specified in

[Page 206]
Page 206 of 291 
 
re-used and disposed 
off  
various Waste Management Rules issued by the Ministry of 
Environment, Forests & Climate Change. 
 
2. For each respective category of waste generated (plastic, 
e-waste, bio -medical waste, construction and demolition 
waste, battery waste, radio -active waste, other hazardous 
and other non-hazardous waste), the entity shall report the 
waste that is recovered through recycling, preparing for re-
use or through other recovery operations. Guidance on 
these terms is given below: 
 Waste may be recovered through any operation wherein 
products, components of products, or  materials that have 
become waste are prepared to fulfill a purpose in place of 
new products, components, or materials that would 
otherwise have been used for that purpose. Preparation for 
re-use and recycling are examples of recovery operations. 
 Preparation for re -use means checking, cleaning, or 
repairing operations, by which products or components of 
products that have become waste are prepared to be put to 
use for the same purpose for which they were conceived.  
 Recycling refers to reprocessing of products or components 
of products that have become waste, to make new 
materials. 
 
3. For each respective category of waste generated (plastic, 
e-waste, bio -medical waste, construction and demolition 
waste, battery waste, radio -active waste, other hazardous 
and other non-hazardous waste), the entity shall disclose 
the waste that is disposed with the break-up of the disposal 
method, as follows: 
 Waste that is incinerated – incinerations refers to controlled 
burning of waste at high temperatures 
 Waste that is sent to a landfill - landfilling refers to 
depositing of waste in sanitary landfills, and excludes 
uncontrolled waste disposal such as open burning and 
dumping 
 Other disposal operations: Entities may specify the other 
disposal operations used, in case the same are significant. 
 
4. Entities should disclose any contextual information 
necessary to understand the data, such as any standards, 
methodologies, assumptions and/or calculation tools used. 
 
10. Description of waste 
management 
practices 
1. Under this field, the entity may consider including a 
description of the activities that lead to significant waste -
related impact and the actions taken to manage the impact 
from such waste. Such actions could include the following: 
 Improving materials selection and product design  
 Using recycled, re-used or renewable materials 
 Substituting inputs that have hazardous characteristics 
with inputs that are non-hazardous

[Page 207]
Page 207 of 291 
 
2. If the waste generated by the organization in its own 
activities is managed by a third party, the entity may 
consider including a description of the processes used to 
determine whether the third party manages the waste in line 
with contractual or legislative obligations. 
12. Details of 
Environmental Impact 
Assessments (EIA) 
This disclosure shall be made, if the entity has undertaken EIA 
in compliance with applicable environmental laws. 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Details of water 
withdrawn, consumed 
and discharged in 
areas of water stress 
1. Areas of water stress are those where there is inability to 
meet the human and ecological demand for water. It can 
refer to the availability, quality, or accessibility of water. 
Further, areas classified as “over -exploited” or “critical” by 
the Central Gro undwater Board, shall fall under area of 
water stress (Reference:  
http://cgwb.gov.in/gwresource.html).  
 
2. The entity may also refer to the guidance at Question 3 and 
4 of Essential indicators under P6. 
2. Scope 3 emissions 1. Scope 3 emissions are indirect GHG emissions (not 
included in energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions) that 
occur outside of the organization, including both upstream 
and downstream emissions.  
 
2. Upstream categories can include purchased goods and 
services, capital goods, upstream transportation and 
distribution, business travel, etc.  
Downstream categories can include downstream 
transportation and distribution, processing of sold products, 
end-of-life treatment of sold products etc. 
 
3. Entities may, on a voluntary basis, provide a break-up of the 
Scope 3 emissions into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, 
NF3.  
 
4. The entity shall exclude any GHG trades (purchase, sale or 
transfer of GHG emissions) from the calculation of Scope 3 
GHG emissions. 
 
5. The unit for the disclosures shall be metric tonnes of CO 2 
equivalent. Entities should consistently apply global 
warming potential (GWP) rates and emission factors used 
for the data disclosed and also disclose the source of the 
rates / factors. Further, en tities should disclose the 
standards, methodologies, assumptions and/or calculation 
tools used, including sources of the global warming 
potential (GWP) rates and emission factors used. 
 
9. Scope 3 emission intensity per rupee of turnover shall be 
calculated as the total Scope 3 emissions generated divided 
by the total turnover in rupees.

[Page 208]
Page 208 of 291 
 
10. Apart from turnover, entities may on a voluntary basis, 
provide Scope 3 GHG emission intensity ratio, based on 
other metrics, such as: 
• units of product;  
• production volume (such as metric tons, litres, or 
MWh);  
• size (such as m2 floor space);  
• number of full-time employees 
 
3. Impact on bio-diversity 1. Under this field, for the ecologically sensitive areas reported 
by the entity at Question 1 1 of Essential indicators under 
Principle 6, the entity can report any impact of its operations 
that could adversely affect the integrity of such an area, 
either directly or indirectly, by substantially changing its 
ecological features, structures, and func tions across its 
whole area, and over the long term, so that habitat, its 
population levels, and the particular species that make the 
habitat important cannot be sustained.

[Page 209]
Page 209 of 291 
 
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory pol icy, should 
do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent 
Leadership Indicators 
Q. No.  Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
1 Details of public policy 
positions advocated by the 
entity 
1. The listed shall disclose issues that are the 
focus of its participation in public policy 
development.  
 
2. Further, the entity shall provide the details of 
methods resorted to in each case including 
affiliation with other similar business entities 
by forming  coalitions, representing through 
trade chambers, social marketing, etc. 
 
3. The entity shall select Yes or No, as the case 
may be, for the availability of information on 
each public policy advocated in public 
domain. 
 
4. Select the appropriate frequency of Boar d 
review, such as: 
 Quarterly 
 Half-yearly  
 Annually 
 Others, please specify 
 
5. Also provide the link of the document 
containing details of such public policy 
position advocated in the public domain, if 
available.

[Page 210]
Page 210 of 291 
 
PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development 
Essential Indicators 
Q. No.  Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
1 Details of Social Impact 
Assessments (SIA) 
This disclosure shall be made, if the entity has 
undertaken SIA in compliance with laws such as 
the Right  to Fair Compensation and 
Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation 
and Resettlement Act, 2013. 
3 Describe the mechanisms to 
receive grievances of the local 
community 
 Local communities are defined as persons or 
groups of persons living and/or work ing in any 
areas that are economically, socially or 
environmentally impacted (positively or 
negatively) by an organization’s operations. The 
local community can range from persons living 
adjacent to an organization's operations, to 
those living at a distance who are still likely to be 
impacted by these operations. 
4 Percentage of inputs directly 
sourced from MSMEs / small 
producers 
1. Small producers mean those where the 
owner herself or himself is a worker and 
includes informal and/or producers such as 
self-help groups and home-based workers as 
well as producer -owned entities such as 
cooperatives, producer companies. 
 
2. MSME is defined by Ministry of MSME as:  
 Micro: Investment in Plant and Machinery 
or Equipment  
not more than Rs.1 crore and Annual 
Turnover not more than Rs. 5 crore 
 Small: Investment in Plant and Machinery 
or Equipment  
not more than Rs.10 crore and Annual 
Turnover not more than Rs. 50 crore 
 Medium: Investment in Plant and 
Machinery or Equipment not more than 
Rs.50 crore and Annual Turnover not 
more than Rs. 250 crore 
Leadership Indicators 
Q. No.  Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
2 CSR projects undertaken in 
aspirational districts 
As per the ‘Transformation of Aspirational 
Districts’ programme of the Government, a list of 
districts has been identified for quick and 
effective transformation. For additional details, 
refer to the following link: 
https://niti.gov.in/about-aspirational-districts-
programme 
4 Details of the benefits derived 
and shared  from the 
intellectual properties owned 
Provide brief information of intellectual properties 
based on traditional knowledge owned or 
acquired by the business in the current Financial

[Page 211]
Page 211 of 291 
 
or acquired by your company 
based on traditional 
knowledge shared 
Year, mention Yes / No for Owned or Acquired, 
as the case may be. Select Yes or No as the 
case may be whether benefit arising out of such 
IPRs are shared on the lines of Access to 
Biological Resources and Associated 
Knowledge and Benefits Sharing Regulatio ns, 
2014.  
Intellectual Properties 
Intellectual property refers to creations of the 
mind: such as inventions, literary, musical and 
artistic works, and symbols, names, images and 
designs used in commerce, for which the IP 
owners are granted certain exclusi ve rights 
under the corresponding national IP laws. 
Common types of IP include patents 
(inventions), copyrights, trademarks, industrial 
designs, software, geographic indications and 
trade secrets, etc.  
Traditional Knowledge refers to any 
indigenous, techn ical, ecological, scientific, 
medical or cultural knowledge which is not 
necessarily documented but is in use by or 
generally known to communities. Typical 
examples include antiseptic properties of neem, 
turmeric, etc. 
Briefly outline the basis for calcula ting the 
benefits shared by the company with the 
“owners” of such traditional knowledge. 
6 Details of beneficiaries of 
CSR Projects 
 
For each CSR Project undertaken by the 
company, enter: 
(a) total number of beneficiaries,  
(b) percentage of such beneficiaries 
belonging to vulnerable and marginalised 
groups

[Page 212]
Page 212 of 291 
 
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a 
responsible manner 
Essential Indicators 
Q. No.  Field Name Instruction/Guidance 
4 Details of instances of product 
recalls on account of safety 
issues 
 
A product recall is the process of retrieving 
defective and/or potentially unsafe goods from 
consumers. In this regard, mention the number 
of instances and reasons for voluntary or forced  
recall of products of the entity. 
Leadership Indicators 
1 Channels / platforms where 
information on goods and 
services of the business can 
be accessed. 
Describe the Channels / platforms where 
information on goods and services of the 
business can be accessed. For Example, 
websites of the company, Mobile Apps, Help 
Desks, Call Centres, etc. 
Also, provide the link of the document containing 
such information if available in the public domain.

[Page 213]
Page 213 of 291 
Annexure 17A 
Format of BRSR Core  
 
Sr. 
No. Attribute Parameter Measurement 
170[Data & Assessment or Assurance 
Approach] 
Cross – reference 
to the BRSR 
1 
Green-house gas 
(GHG) footprint 
 
Greenhouse gas 
emissions may be 
measured in 
accordance with 
the Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol: A 
Corporate 
Accounting and 
Reporting 
Standard 
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up 
of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) 
GHG (CO 2e) Emission in 
Mn MT / KT / MT  
Direct emissions from 
organization’s owned - or 
controlled sources 
 
1. Absolute Fossil Fuel (Coal, Natural 
Gas, Diesel, FO etc.) Consumption 
(Mn MT / KT / MT / MM BTU etc.) 
2. Emission Factor (GHG in CO 2e / Unit 
of Measure) - IPCC or Actual Testing 
from Accredited Test Lab 
3. Quantity of Carbon Capture (Mn MT / 
KT / MT) 
4. GHG emissions in CO2 equivalent by 
process (Non -Fuel Source) (Mn MT / 
KT / MT / MM BTU) 
5. Fugitive emissions 
6. Total Scope 1 GHG Emissions: Point 2 
x Point 1 - Point 3 + Point 4 + Point 5 
 
Principle 6, 
Question 7 of 
Essential Indicators 
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break -up 
of the GHG (CO 2e) into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if 
available) 
GHG (CO 2e) Emission in 
Mn MT / KT / MT  
Indirect emissions from 
the generation of energy 
that is purchased from a 
utility provider 
1. Total Consumption of Purchased 
Energy (MW), Steam (MT), 
Refrigeration (MMBTU)  
 
2. GHG (CO 2e) Emission Factor across 
all purchased energy sources - IPCC or 
actual from the supplier (audited 
certificates) 
 
3. Total Scope 2GHG Emissions: Total 
Consumption x Emission Factor 
Principle 6, 
Question 7 of 
Essential Indicators 
                                                           
170 Substituted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2025/42 dated Mar 28, 2025. Prior to its substitution the column title read as “Data & Assurance Approach”.

[Page 214]
Page 214 of 291 
Sr. 
No. Attribute Parameter Measurement 
170[Data & Assessment or Assurance 
Approach] 
Cross – reference 
to the BRSR 
GHG Emission Intensity  
(Scope 1 +2) 
 
 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 
2 emissions (MT) / Total 
Revenue from Operations  
adjusted for PPP 
1.Total Emission (Scope 1 & 2)  
2. Total Revenue from Operations - From 
Audited P&L Statement 
3. PPP (USD / INR) 
Principle 6, 
Question 7 of 
Essential Indicators 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 
2 emissions (MT) / Total 
Output of Product or 
Services 
1. Total Emission (Scope 1 & 2) as above  
2. Company & Sector Specific (i.e., No. of 
Vehicles Produced, MT of Material 
Produced, Data in Mn TB, No. of Seats / 
Travel Class, Room-nights etc.) 
Principle 6, 
Question 7 of 
Essential Indicators 
 
2 Water footprint Total water consumption  
Mn Lt or KL 
Water consumed is water that it is no longer 
available for use by the ecosystem or local 
community, such as  water that has been 
withdrawn and incorporated  into products 
or has evaporated or is polluted to the point 
of being unusable by other users, and is   
therefore not released back to surface 
water, groundwater, seawater, or a third 
party. It also  includes water that has been 
stored during the reporting period for use or 
discharge in a subsequent reporting period. 
If the entity cannot directly measure its 
water consumption, it may calculate this 
using the following: 
 
1. Input water flow meter logs (Calibrated 
Meters) 
2. Output water flow meter logs (Calibrated 
Meters) 
3. Water consumption = Input Water - 
Output Water 
 
 
Principle 6, 
Question 3 of 
Essential Indicators

[Page 215]
Page 215 of 291 
Sr. 
No. Attribute Parameter Measurement 
170[Data & Assessment or Assurance 
Approach] 
Cross – reference 
to the BRSR 
 Water consumption intensity 
Mn Lt or KL / Rupee 
adjusted for PPP 
1. Total water consumed 
2. Total Revenue from Operations (from 
audited P&L) 
3. PPP (USD / INR) 
Principle 6, 
Question 3 of 
Essential Indicators 
Mn Lt or KL / Product or 
Service 
1. Consumption as above 
2. Company & Sector Specific (i.e., No. of 
Vehicles Produced, MT of Material 
Produced, Data in Mn TB, No. of Seats / 
Travel Class etc) 
Principle 6, 
Question 3 of 
Essential Indicators 
  Water Discharge by destination and 
levels of Treatment Mn Lt or KL 
1. Untreated Water 
2. Primary Treatment (Removal of material 
that floats or settle out i.e Filtration, 
Screening, Sedimentation etc.) 
3. Secondary Treatment (Removal of 
Dissolved organic Matter i.e. Oxidation, 
Digestion etc.) 
4. Tertiary Treatment (Disinfecting Water 
i.e. removal of pathogens, Phosphorous, 
Nitrogen etc.) 
Principle 6, 
Question 4 of 
Essential Indicators 
3 
Energy footprint 
 
Total energy consumed 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
% of energy consumed from 
renewable sources 
 
In Joules or multiples 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In % terms 
 
Total energy consumption = non -
renewable fuel consumed + renewable fuel 
consumed + purchased electricity, heating, 
cooling, steam + self -generated electricity, 
heating, cooling, steam  
(If the entity generates electricity from a 
non-renewable or renewable fuel source 
and then consumes the generated 
electricity, the energy consumption shall be 
counted only once) 
 
Energy consumed through renewable 
sources / total energy consumed 
Principle 6, 
Question 1 of 
Essential Indicators

[Page 216]
Page 216 of 291 
Sr. 
No. Attribute Parameter Measurement 
170[Data & Assessment or Assurance 
Approach] 
Cross – reference 
to the BRSR 
 Energy intensity 
Joules or multiples / 
Rupee adjusted for PPP 
1. Total energy consumed 
2. Total Revenue from Operations (from 
audited P&L) 
3. PPP (USD / INR) 
Principle 6, 
Question 1 of 
Essential Indicators 
Joules or multiples / 
Product or Service 
1.Consumption as above  
2. Company & Sector Specific (i.e., No. of 
Vehicles Produced, MT of Material 
Produced, Data in Mn TB, No. of Seats / 
Travel Class etc) 
Principle 6, 
Question 1 of 
Essential Indicators 
4 
Embracing 
circularity - details 
related to waste 
management by 
the entity 
Plastic waste (A) Kg / MT 
Absolute weight of the packaging material 
(Bags, Bottles, Pallets etc.) discarded as 
defined under the plastic waste 
management rules 2016 and amendments 
thereof 
Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators 
E-waste (B) Kg / MT 
Discarded Computers, televisions, cell 
phones, VCRs, stereos, DVD players, 
copiers, and fax machines etc. as listed 
under e -waste management rules 2016 
and amendments thereof 
Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators 
Bio-medical waste (C) Kg / MT 
Solids and liquid waste including its 
container and any intermediate product, 
which is generated during the diagnosis, 
treatment or immunization of human beings 
or animals or research activities as listed 
under Bio -medical waste management 
rules 2016 and amendments thereof 
Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators 
Construction and demolition waste 
(D) Kg / MT 
Construction waste as per C&D waste 
management Rules 2016 and amendments 
thereof like concrete, plaster, metal rods / 
wires, wood, plastics etc. 
Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators 
Battery waste (E) Kg / MT 
Discarded batteries i.e., Li -ion, Alkaline, 
Lead Acid etc used in vehicles, computers 
& laptops, mobiles other electronics, UPS, 
Power Back up etc. as per Battery Waste 
Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators

[Page 217]
Page 217 of 291 
Sr. 
No. Attribute Parameter Measurement 
170[Data & Assessment or Assurance 
Approach] 
Cross – reference 
to the BRSR 
management Rules 2016 and amendments 
thereof 
Radioactive waste (F) Kg / MT 
Discarded material such as paper, plastic, 
clothes, equipment, machine parts etc 
having exposure to radiation across 
Nuclear Power Plants, Hospitals, Research 
Laboratories, Industrial Applications etc.) 
Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators 
Other Hazardous waste. Please 
specify, if any. (G) Kg / MT As per hazardous waste management 
rules of CPCB 
Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators 
Other Non -hazardous waste 
generated (H). Please specify, if any. 
(Break-up by composition i.e., by 
materials relevant to the sector) 
Kg / MT Waste not identified as Hazardous as per 
CPCB 
Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators 
Total waste generated ((A+B + C + 
D + E + F + G + H) Kg / MT self-explanatory 
Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators 
Waste intensity 
Kg or MT / Rupee 
adjusted for PPP 
1. Total waste generated 
2. Total Revenue from Operations (from 
audited P&L) 
3. PPP (USD / INR) 
Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators 
Kg or MT / Unit of 
Product or Service 
1. Total waste generated 
2. Company & Sector Specific (i.e., No. of 
Vehicles Produced, MT of Material 
Produced, Data in Mn TB, No. of Seats / 
Travel Class etc) 
Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators 
Each category of waste generated, 
total waste re covered through 
recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations 
Kg or MT Absolute quantity Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators 
Intensity 
Kg of Waste Recycled Recovered /Total 
Waste generated 
 
171[Disclosure may be provided if 
certificates from vendors have been relied 
                                                           
171 Substituted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2025/42 dated Mar 28, 2025. Prior to its substitution the note read as “Disclosure may be provided if certificates from 
vendors have been relied upon for assurance of KPIs on waste management”.

[Page 218]
Page 218 of 291 
Sr. 
No. Attribute Parameter Measurement 
170[Data & Assessment or Assurance 
Approach] 
Cross – reference 
to the BRSR 
upon for assessment or assurance of KPIs 
on waste management] 
For each category of waste 
generated, total waste disposed by 
nature of disposal method 
Kg or MT 
 
 
 
 
Intensity 
1. Amount of material in MT disposed 
through Incineration 
2. Amount of Material to Landfill 
3. Any other method 
Kg of Waste Recycled Recovered /Total 
Waste generated 
Principle 6, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators 
5 
Enhancing 
Employee 
Wellbeing and 
Safety 
 
Spending on measures towards well-
being of employees and workers – 
cost incurred as a % of total revenue 
of the company 
 
 
 
 
In % terms 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To check sources including –  
 Insurance Policies & Premium Paid 
Details 
 Infant Care Policy 
 Amount billed/invoices towards 
providing such facilities 
(The following measures may be included 
– health insurance, accident insurance, 
maternity benefits, paternity benefits, day 
care facilities, health & safety measures 
including access to mental health) 
Principle 3, 
Question 1(c) of 
Essential Indicators 
Details of safety related incidents for 
employees and workers (including 
contract-workforce e.g. workers in 
the company's construction sites) 
Number of Permanent 
Disabilities To check on the basis of claims 
Principle 3, 
Question 11 of 
Essential Indicators 
Lost Time Injury 
Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 
(per one million-person 
hours worked) 
1. Total number of lost time injuries 
2. Total No. of working hours 
3. LTIFR = (Total number of lost time 
injuries*10,00,000) / Total No. of working 
hours 
Principle 3, 
Question 11 of 
Essential Indicators 
No. of fatalities To check on the basis of claims as 
reported to the Factory Inspector 
Principle 3, 
Question 11 of 
Essential Indicators 
6 
Enabling Gender 
Diversity in 
Business 
Gross wages paid to females as % of 
wages paid In % terms Employee Master / Register 
Principle 5, 
Question 3(b) of 
Essential Indicators 
Complaints on POSH 
 Total Complaints on 
Sexual Harassment 
(POSH) reported 
 
Principle 5, 
Question 7 of 
Essential Indicators

[Page 219]
Page 219 of 291 
Sr. 
No. Attribute Parameter Measurement 
170[Data & Assessment or Assurance 
Approach] 
Cross – reference 
to the BRSR 
 Complaints on POSH 
as a % of female 
employees / workers  
 Complaints on POSH 
upheld 
7 Enabling Inclusive 
Development 
Input material sourced from following 
sources as % of total purchases –  
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small 
producers and from within India 
 
 
In % terms – As % of total 
purchases by value 
 
 
self-explanatory 
‘Input material’ - includes all types of 
procurement such as raw material, spares, 
services, capex procurement items etc. 
Principle 8, 
Question 4 of 
Essential Indicators 
Job creation in smaller towns – 
Wages paid to persons employed in 
smaller towns (permanent or non -
permanent /on contract) as % of total 
wage cost 
In % terms – As % of total 
wage cost 
 
Place of employment of employees 
/workers (Place to be categorised based on 
with RBI classification system on rural / 
semi-urban / urban / metropolitan) 
 
 
Principle 8, 
Question 5 of 
Essential Indicators 
8 
Fairness in 
Engaging with 
Customers and 
Suppliers 
Instances involving loss / breach  of 
data of customers as a percentage of 
total data breaches or cyber security 
events 
In % terms  
Principle 9, 
Question 7 of 
Essential Indicators 
  
Number of days of accounts payable 
(Accounts payable *365) / 
Cost of goods/services 
procured 
 
To check from financial statements 
Principle 1, 
Question 8 of 
Essential Indicators 
9 Open-ness of 
business 
Concentration of purchases & sales 
done with trading houses, dealers, 
and related parties  
Loans and advances & investments 
with related parties 
 
 Purchases from 
trading houses as % 
of total purchases  
 Number of trading 
houses where 
purchases are made 
from 
1. RPT audited by Financial Auditors (Refer 
Financial Audit Report)  
2. Financial statements / invoices 
 
 
Principle 1, 
Question 9 of 
Essential Indicators

[Page 220]
Page 220 of 291 
Sr. 
No. Attribute Parameter Measurement 
170[Data & Assessment or Assurance 
Approach] 
Cross – reference 
to the BRSR 
 Purchases from top 
10 trading houses as 
% of total purchases 
from trading houses 
 Sales to dealers / 
distributors as % of 
total sales  
 Number of dealers / 
distributors to whom 
sales are made 
 Sales to top 10 
dealers / distributors 
as % of total sales to 
dealers / distributors 
 
Share of RPTs (as 
respective %age) in - 
 Purchases 
 Sales 
 Loans & advances 
 Investments

[Page 221]
Page 221 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 18 
 
DETAILS TO BE PROVIDED WHILE DISCLOSING EVENTS GIVEN IN PART A OF 
SCHEDULE III OF THE LODR REGULATIONS 
 
A. Details which a listed entity needs to disclose for the events that are deemed to 
be material as specified in Para A of Part A of Schedule III of the LODR Regulations 
 
1. Acquisition(s)(including agreement to acquire), Scheme of Arrangement 
(amalgamation/ merger/ demerger/restructuring), sale or disposal of any unit(s), 
division(s), whole or substantially the whole of the undertaking(s) or subsidiary 
of the listed entity, sale of stake in the associate company of the listed entity or 
any other restructuring:   
 
1.1. Acquisition (including agreement to acquire):  
 
a) name of the target entity, details in brief such as size, turnover etc.;  
b) whether the acquisition would fall within related party transaction(s) and whether 
the promoter/ promoter group/ group companies have any interest in the entity 
being acquired? If yes, nature of interest and details thereof and whether the same 
is done at “arm’s length”;  
c) industry to which the entity being acquired belongs;  
d) objects and impact of acquisition (including but not limited to, disclosure of reasons 
for acquisition of target entity, if its business is outside the main line of business of 
the listed entity);  
e) brief details of any governmental or regulatory approvals required for the 
acquisition;  
f) indicative time period for completion of the acquisition;    
g) consideration - whether cash consideration or share swap or any other form and 
details of the same;  
h) cost of acquisition and/or the price at which the shares are acquired;   
i) percentage of shareholding / control acquired and / or number of shares acquired;  
j) brief background a bout the entity acquired in terms of products/line of business 
acquired, date of incorporation, history of last 3 years turnover, country in which 
the acquired entity has presence and any other significant information (in brief);  
 
172[1.1.A. Acquisition of ‘to be incorporated’ companies: 
(i) name of the entity, date & country of incorporation, etc.;  
(ii) name of holding company of the incorporated company and relation with the listed 
entity; 
(iii) industry to which the entity being incorporated belongs; 
(iv) brief background a bout the entity incorporated in terms of products / line of 
business; 
                                                           
172 Inserted with issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated Dece mber 31, 2024, which is 
incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular.

[Page 222]
Page 222 of 291 
(v) brief details of any governmental or regulatory approvals required for the 
incorporation; 
(vi) nature of consideration - whether cash consideration or share swap and details of 
the same; 
(vii) cost of subscription / price at which the shares are subscribed; 
(viii) percentage of shareholding / control by the listed entity and / or number of shares 
allotted.] 
 
1.2. Amalgamation/ Merger:  
 
a) name of the entity(ies ) forming part of the amalgamation/merger, details in brief 
such as, size, turnover etc.;  
b) whether the transaction would fall within related party transactions? If yes, whether 
the same is done at “arm’s length”;  
c) area of business of the entity(ies);  
d) rationale for amalgamation/ merger;  
e) in case of cash consideration – amount or otherwise share exchange ratio;  
f) brief details of change in shareholding pattern (if any) of listed entity.  
 
1.3. De-merger:  
 
a) brief details of the division(s) to be demerged;  
b) turnover of the demerged division and as percentage to the total turnover of the 
listed entity in the immediately preceding financial year / based on financials of the 
last financial year;  
c) rationale for demerger;  
d) brief details of change in shareholding pattern (if any) of all entities;  
e) in case of cash consideration – amount or otherwise share exchange ratio;   
f) whether listing would be sought for the resulting entity.  
 
1.4. Sale or disposal of unit(s) or division(s), whole or substantially the whole of the 
undertaking(s) or subsidiary of the listed entity, sale of stake in the associate 
company of the listed entity: 
 
a) the amount and percentage of the turnover or revenue or income and net worth 
contributed by such unit or division or undertaking or subsidiary or  associate 
company of the listed entity during the last financial year;  
b) date on which the agreement for sale has been entered into;  
c) the expected date of completion of sale/disposal;  
d) consideration received from such sale/disposal;  
e) brief details of buyers and whether any of the buyers belong to the promoter/ 
promoter group/group companies. If yes, details thereof;   
f) whether the transaction would fall within related party transactions? If yes, whether 
the same is done at “arm’s length”;  
g) whether the sale, lease or disposal of the undertaking is outside Scheme of 
Arrangement? If yes, details of the same including compliance with regulation 37A 
of LODR Regulations.

[Page 223]
Page 223 of 291 
h) additionally, in case of a slump sale, indicative disclosures provided fo r 
amalgamation/merger, shall be disclosed by the listed entity with respect to such 
slump sale.   
 
For the purpose of this sub-clause, "slump sale" shall mean the transfer of one or more 
undertakings, as a result of the sale for a lump sum consideration, without values being 
assigned to the individual assets and liabilities in such sales.  
 
1.5. Other Restructuring:  
 
a) details and reasons for restructuring;  
b) quantitative and/ or qualitative effect of restructuring;  
c) details of benefit, if any, to the promoter/promoter group/group companies from 
such proposed restructuring;  
d) brief details of change in shareholding pattern (if any) of all entities.  
 
2. Issuance or forfeiture of securities, split or consolidation of shares , buyback of 
securities, any restriction on transferability of securities or alteration in terms or 
structure of existing securities including forfeiture, reissue of forfeited 
securities, alteration of calls, redemption of securities etc.   
 
2.1. Issuance of securities:   
 
a) type of securities proposed to be issued (viz. equity shares, convertibles etc.);   
b) type of issuance (further public offering, rights issue, depository receipts 
(ADR/GDR), qualified institutions placement, preferential allotment etc.);  
c) total number of securities proposed to be issued or the total amount for which the 
securities will be issued (approximately);  
d) in case of preferential issue the listed entity shall disclose the following additional 
details to the stock exchange(s): 
i. names of the investors;  
ii. post allotment of securities - outcome of the subscription, issue price / allotted 
price (in case of convertibles), number of investors;  
iii. in case of convertibles - intimation on conversion of securities or on lapse of 
the tenure of the instrument;  
e) in case of bonus issue the listed entity shall disclose the following additional details 
to the stock exchange(s):  
i. whether bonus is out of free reserves created out of profits or share premium 
account;  
ii. bonus ratio;  
iii. details of share capital - pre and post bonus issue;   
iv. free reserves and/ or share premium required for implementing the bonus 
issue;  
v. free reserves and/ or share premium available for capitalization and the date 
as on which such balance is available;  
vi. whether the aforesaid figures are audited;  
vii. estimated date by which such bonus shares would be credited/dispatched;

[Page 224]
Page 224 of 291 
 
f) in case of issuance of depository receipts (ADR/GDR) or FCCB the listed entity 
shall disclose following additional details to the stock exchange(s):  
i. name of the stock exchange(s) where ADR/GDR/FCCBs are listed (opening 
– closing status) / proposed to be listed;  
ii. proposed no. of equity shares underlying the ADR/GDR or on conversion of 
FCCBs;  
iii. proposed date of allotment, tenure, date of maturity and coup on offered, if 
any of FCCB’s;  
iv. issue price of ADR/GDR/FCCBs (in terms of USD and in INR after 
considering conversion rate);   
v. change in terms of FCCBs, if any;  
vi. details of defaults, if any, by the listed entity in payment of coupon on FCCBs 
& subsequent up dates in relation to the default, including the details of the 
corrective measures undertaken (if any);  
g) in case of issuance of debt securities or other non-convertible securities the listed 
entity shall disclose following additional details to the stock exchange(s):  
i. size of the issue;  
ii. whether proposed to be listed? If yes, name of the stock exchange(s);  
iii. tenure of the instrument - date of allotment and date of maturity;  
iv. coupon/interest offered, schedule of payment of coupon/interest and 
principal;  
v. charge/security, if any, created over the assets;  
vi. special right/interest/privileges attached to the instrument and changes 
thereof;  
vii. delay in payment of interest / principal amount for a period of more than three 
months from the due date or default in payment of interest / principal;    
viii. details of any letter or comments regarding payment/non-payment of interest, 
principal on due dates, or any other matter concerning the security and /or 
the assets along with its comments thereon, if any;    
ix. details of redempti on of preference shares indicating the manner of 
redemption (whether out of profits or out of fresh issue) and debentures;   
h) any cancellation or termination of proposal for issuance of securities including 
reasons thereof.  
 
2.2. Split/consolidation of shares:  
a) split/consolidation ratio;  
b) rationale behind the split/consolidation;  
c) pre and post share capital – authorized, paid-up and subscribed;  
d) expected time of completion;  
e) class of shares which are consolidated or subdivided;  
f) number of shares of each class pre and post split or consolidation;  
g) number of shareholders who did not get any shares in consolidation and their pre-
consolidation shareholding.  
 
2.3. Buy back of securities:

[Page 225]
Page 225 of 291 
a) number of securities proposed for buyback;  
b) number of securities proposed for buyback as a percentage of existing paid up 
capital;   
c) buyback price;  
d) actual securities in number and percentage of existing paid up capital bought back;  
e) pre & post shareholding pattern.  
 
2.4. Any restriction on transferability of securities:   
a) authority issuing attachment or prohibitory orders;  
b) brief details and reasons for attachment or prohibitory orders;  
c) name of registered holders against whom restriction on transferability has been 
placed;  
d) total number of securities so affected;  
e) distinctive numbers of such securities if applicable;  
f) period for which order would be applicable (if stated).  
 
2.5. Any action, which will result in alteration of the terms or structure of any existing 
securities, including, but not limited to:  
a) forfeiture of shares;  
b) reissue of forfeited shares or securities, or the issue of shares or securities held in 
reserve for fut ure issue or the creation in any form or manner of new shares or 
securities or any other rights, privileges or benefits to subscribe to;  
c) proposal to issue any class of securities;   
d) alterations of capital, including calls;   
e) change in the terms regarding redemption/cancellation/retirement in whole or in 
part of any securities issued by the listed entity.  
 
3. New Rating(s) or Revision in Rating(s) 
 
The listed entity shall notify the stock exchange(s), the details of any new rating or 
revision in rating assigned from a credit rating agency to any debt instrument of the 
listed entity or to any fixed deposit programme or to any scheme or proposal of the 
listed entity involving mobilization of funds whether in India or abroad. In case of a 
downward revision in ratings, the listed entity shall also intimate the reasons provided 
by the rating agency for such downward revision. 
The above requirement to disclose rating shall also be applicable to the following: 
a) Revision in rating even if it was not requested for by the listed entity or the request 
was later withdrawn by the listed entity. 
b) Revision in rating outlook even without revision in rating score.  
c) ESG ratings by registered ESG Rating Providers.  
 
4. Outcome of meetings of the board of directors: The listed entity shall intimate to the 
Exchange(s), within 30 minutes of the closure of the meeting, held to consider or decide 
the following:

[Page 226]
Page 226 of 291 
4.1. dividends and/or cash bonuses recommended or declared or the decision to pass 
any dividend and the date on which dividend shall be paid/dispatched;   
4.2. any cancellation of dividend with reasons thereof;  
4.3. the decision on buyback of securities;  
4.4. the decision with respect to fund raising proposed to be undertaken;  
4.5. increase in capital by issue of bonus shares through capitalization including the 
date on which such bonus shares would be credited/dispatched;  
4.6. reissue of forfeited shares or securities, or the issue of shares or securities held 
in reserve for future issue or the creation in any form or manner of new shares or 
securities or any other rights, privileges or benefits to subscribe to;  
4.7. short particulars of any other alterations of capital, including calls;  
4.8. financial results;  
4.9. decision on voluntary delisting by the listed entity from stock exchange(s);  
 
The intimation of outcome of meeting of the board of directors shall also contain the 
time of commencement and conclusion of the meeting.     
 
5. Agreements (viz. shareholder agreement(s), joint venture agreement( s), family 
settlement agreement(s) (to the extent that it impacts management and control 
of the listed entity), agreement(s)/treaty(ies)/contract(s) with media companies) 
which are binding and not in normal course of business, revision(s) or 
amendment(s) and termination(s) thereof:  
 
5.1. name(s) of parties with whom the agreement is entered;  
5.2. purpose of entering into the agreement;  
5.3. shareholding, if any, in the entity with whom the agreement is executed;  
5.4. significant terms of the agreement (in brief) special rights like right to appoint 
directors, first right to share subscription in case of issuance of shares, right to 
restrict any change in capital structure etc.;  
5.5. whether, the said parties are related to  promoter/promoter group/ group 
companies in any manner. If yes, nature of relationship;  
5.6. whether the transaction would fall within related party transactions? If yes, 
whether the same is done at “arm’s length”;  
5.7. in case of issuance of shares to the parties, details of issue price, class of shares 
issued;  
5.8. any other disclosures related to such agreements, viz., details of nominee on 
the board of directors of the listed entity, potential conflict of interest arising out 
of such agreements, etc.;  
5.9. in case of termination or amendment of agreement, listed entity shall disclose 
additional details to the stock exchange(s):   
a) name of parties to the agreement;  
b) nature of the agreement;  
c) date of execution of the agreement;   
d) details of amendment and impact thereof or  reasons of termination and 
impact thereof.

[Page 227]
Page 227 of 291 
5A.Agreements entered into by the shareholders, promoters, promoter group entities, 
related parties, directors, key managerial personnel, employees of the listed entity 
or of its holding, subsidiary or associate company, among themselves or with the 
listed entity or with a third party, solely or jointly, which, either directly or 
indirectly or potentially or whose purpose and effect is to, impact the management 
or control of the listed entity or impose any restriction or create any liability upon 
the listed entity, shall be disclosed to the Stock Exchanges, including disclosure 
of any rescission, amendment or alteration of such agreements thereto, whether 
or not the listed entity is a party to such agreements: 
Provided that such agreements entered into by a listed entity in the normal course 
of business shall not be required to be disclosed unless they, either directly or 
indirectly or potentially or whose purpose and effect is to, impact the management 
or control of the listed entity or they are required to be disclosed in terms of any 
other provisions of these regulations: 
 
a) if the listed entity is a party to the agreement, 
i. details of the counterparties (including name and relationship with the listed 
entity); 
b) if listed entity is not a party to the agreement, 
i. name of the party entering into such an agreement and the relationship with 
the listed entity; 
ii. details of the counterparties to the agreement (including name and 
relationship with the listed entity); 
iii. date of entering into the agreement. 
c) purpose of entering into the agreement;  
d) shareholding, if any, in the entity with whom the agreement is executed;  
e) significant terms of the agreement (in brief); 
f) extent and the nature of impact on management or control of the listed entity; 
g) details and quantification of the restriction or liability imposed upon the listed 
entity; 
h) whether, the said parties are related to promoter/promoter group/ group 
companies in any manner. If yes, nature of relationship;  
i) whether the transact ion would fall within related party transactions? If yes, 
whether the same is done at “arm’s length”;  
j) in case of issuance of shares to the parties, details of issue price, class of shares 
issued;  
k) any other disclosures related to such agreements, viz., details of nominee on the 
board of directors of the listed entity, potential conflict of interest arising out of 
such agreements, etc.;  
l) in case of rescission, amendment or alteration, listed entity shall disclose 
additional details to the stock exchange(s):   
i. name of parties to the agreement;  
ii. nature of the agreement;  
iii. date of execution of the agreement;   
iv. details and reasons for amendment or alteration and impact thereof 
(including impact on management or control and on the restriction or liability 
quantified earlier);

[Page 228]
Page 228 of 291 
v. reasons for rescission and impact thereof (including impact on 
management or control and on the restriction or liability quantified earlier).  
 
6. Fraud or defaults by a listed entity, its promoter, director, key managerial 
personnel, sen ior management or subsidiary or arrest of key managerial 
personnel, senior management, promoter or director whether occurred within 
India or abroad:  
 
6.1. At the time of unearthing of fraud or occurrence of the default / arrest:  
a) nature of fraud/default/arrest;  
b) estimated impact on the listed entity;  
c) time of occurrence;  
d) person(s) involved;  
e) estimated amount involved (if any); 
f) whether such fraud/default/arrest has been reported to appropriate authorities.   
 
6.2. Subsequently intimate the stock exchange(s) further details regarding the 
fraud/default/arrest including:  
a) actual amount involved in the fraud /default (if any);  
b) actual impact of such fraud /default on the listed entity and its financials; and  
c) corrective measures taken by the listed entity on account of such fraud/default.  
 
7. Change in directors, key managerial personnel (Managing Director, Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary etc.), senior 
management, Auditor and Compliance Officer: 
7.1. reason for change viz. appointment, re-appointment, resignation, removal, death 
or otherwise;  
7.2. date of appointment/re -appointment/cessation (as applicable) & term of 
appointment/re-appointment;  
7.3. brief profile (in case of appointment);  
7.4. disclosure of relationships between directors (in case of appointment of a 
director).  
 
7A. As specified in sub-para 7A of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations. 
 
7B. As specified in sub-para 7B of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations.  
 
7C. As specified in sub-para 7C of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations. 
 
7D. As specified in sub-para 7D of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations. 
 
8. Appointment or discontinuation of share transfer agent:  
8.1. reason for appointment or discontinuation;   
8.2. date on which above would become effective.  
 
9. As specified in sub-para 9 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations.

[Page 229]
Page 229 of 291 
10. One time settlement (OTS) with a Bank: 
10.1. reasons for opting for OTS;  
10.2. brief summary of the OTS.  
 
11. Winding-up petition filed by any party / creditors:   
11.1. reasons for such a petition;  
11.2. impact of such petition on listed entity.   
 
12. Issuance of notices, call letters, resolutions and circulars sent to shareholders, 
debenture holders or creditors or any class of them or advertised in the media 
by the listed entity and the following: 
12.1. date of notice/call letters/resolutions etc.;  
12.2. brief details viz. agenda (if any) proposed to be taken up, resolution to be 
passed, manner of approval proposed etc.   
 
13. Proceedings of annual and extraordinary general meetings of the listed entity 
and the following details in brief: 
13.1. date of the meeting;  
13.2. brief details of items deliberated and results thereof;   
13.3. manner of approval proposed for certain items (e-voting etc.).  
 
14. Amendments to memorandum and articles of association of listed entity, in brief.  
 
15. As specified in sub-para 15 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations. 
 
16. As specified in sub-para 16 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations. 
 
17. As specified in sub-para 17 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations. 
 
18. As specified in sub-para 18 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations. 
 
19. As specified in sub-para 19 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations. 
 
20. As specified in sub-para 20 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations. 
 
21. As specified in sub-para 21 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations. 
 
B. Details which a listed entity need to disclose for events on which the listed entity 
shall apply materiality  in terms of Para B of Part A of Schedule III of the LODR 
Regulations  
 
1. Commencement or any postponement in the date of commencement of 
commercial production or commercial operations of any unit/division:  
 
The listed entity shall notify the stock exchange(s) regarding the commencement of 
commercial production or the commencem ent of commercial operations of any 
unit/division. In cases where the listed entity has made prior intimation of date of

[Page 230]
Page 230 of 291 
commencement of commercial production or operations, the listed entity shall be 
required to disclose details in case of postponement of the date of commencement.   
 
2. Any of the following events pertaining to the listed entity:  
 
2.1. Arrangements for strategic, technical, manufacturing, or marketing tie -
up:    
a) Agreement / joint venture (JV) with companies:  
i. name of the entity(ies) with whom agreement/ JV is signed;  
ii. area of agreement/JV;  
iii. domestic/international;  
iv. share exchange ratio / JV ratio;  
v. scope of business operation of agreement / JV;  
vi. details of consideration paid / received in agreement / JV;   
vii. significant terms and conditions of agreement / JV in brief;  
viii. whether the acquisition would fall within related party transactions 
and whether the promoter/ promoter group/ group companies have 
any interest in the entity being acquired? If yes, nature of interest and 
details thereof and whether the same is done at “arm’s length”;  
ix. size of the entity(ies);  
x. rationale and benefit expected.  
 
b) In the event that any such arrangement is called off for any reason, the 
same shall be disclosed along with the reasons for calling off the proposal.   
 
2.2. Adoption of new line(s) of business:   
a) industry or area to which the new line of business belongs to;  
b) expected benefits;  
c) estimated amount to be invested.  
 
2.3. Closure of operations of any unit, division or subsidiary (in entirety or in 
piecemeal): 
a) date of such binding agreement, if any, entered for sale of such 
unit/division, if any;  
b) amount & percentage of turnover or revenue or income and net worth of 
the listed entity contributed by such unit or division during the last financial 
year;  
c) date of closure or estimated time of closure;   
d) reasons for closure.  
 
3. Capacity addition or product launch 
 
3.1. Capacity addition:  
a) existing capacity;  
b) existing capacity utilization;  
c) proposed capacity addition;   
d) period within which the proposed capacity is to be added;

[Page 231]
Page 231 of 291 
e) investment required;   
f) mode of financing;   
g) rationale.   
 
3.2. Product launch:  
a) name of the product;  
b) date of launch;  
c) category of the product;  
d) whether caters to domestic/ international market;  
e) name o f the countries in which the product is launched (in case of 
international).  
 
4. Awarding, bagging/ receiving, amendment or termination of awarded/bagged 
orders/contracts, not in the normal course of business:   
 
4.1. Awarding of order(s)/contract(s): Only important terms and conditions which 
may be as under needs to be disclosed: 
a) name of the entity to which order(s)/contract(s) is awarded;  
b) whether order(s) / contract(s) is awarded to domestic/ international entity   
c) significant terms and conditions of order(s)/contract(s) awarded, in brief;  
d) time period, if any, associated with the order(s)/contract(s);  
e) broad commercial consideration or size of the order(s)/contract(s);  
f) whether the promoter/ promoter group/group companies have any interest 
in that entity to whom the order(s)/contract(s) is awarded? If Yes, nature 
of interest and details thereof;   
g) whether the same would fall within related party transactions? If yes, 
whether the same is done at “arm’s length”.  
 
4.2. Bagging/Receiving of orders/contracts: Only important terms and conditions 
which may be as under needs to be disclosed:  
 
a) name of the entity awarding the order(s)/contract(s);  
b) significant terms and conditions of order(s)/contract(s) awarded in brief;  
c) whether order(s) / contract(s) have been awarded by domestic/ 
international entity;  
d) nature of order(s) / contract(s);   
e) whether domestic or international;   
f) time period by which the order(s)/contract(s) is to be executed;  
g) broad consideration or size of the order(s)/contract(s);  
h) whether the promoter/ promoter group / group companies have any 
interest in the entity that awarded the order(s)/contract(s)? If yes, nature 
of interest and details thereof;  
i) whether the order(s)/contract(s) would fall within rela ted party 
transactions? If yes, whether the same is done at “arm’s length”.  
 
4.3. Amendment or termination of orders/contracts:   
a) name of parties to the order(s)/contract(s);

[Page 232]
Page 232 of 291 
b) nature of the order(s)/contract(s);  
c) date of execution of the order(s)/contract(s)  
d) details of amendment or reasons for terminations and impact thereof (to 
the extent possible);  
 
5. Agreements (viz. loan agreement(s) or any other agreement(s) which are binding 
and not in normal course of business, revision(s) or amendment(s) and 
termination(s) thereof: Only important terms and conditions which may be as under 
needs to be disclosed: 
 
a) name(s) of parties with whom the agreement is entered;  
b) purpose of entering into the agreement;  
c) size of agreement;  
d) shareholding, if any, in the entity with whom the agreement is executed;  
e) significant terms of the agreement (in brief) special rights like right to appoint 
directors, first right to share subscription in case of issuance of shares, right to 
restrict any change in capital structure etc.;  
f) whether, the said parties are related to promoter/promoter group/ group 
companies in any manner. If yes, nature of relationship;  
g) whether the transaction would fall within related party transactions? If yes, 
whether the same is done at “arm’s length”;  
h) in case of issuance of shares to the parties, details of issue price, class of 
shares issued;  
i) in case of loan agreements, details of lender/borrower, nature of the loan, total 
amount of loan granted/taken, total amount outstanding, date of execution of 
the loan agreement/sanction letter, details of the security provided to the 
lenders / by the borrowers for such loan or in case outstanding loans lent to a 
party or borrowed from a party become material on a cumulative basis; 
j) any other disclosures related to such agreements, viz., details of nominee on 
the board of directors of the listed entity, potential conflict of interest arising out 
of such agreements, etc.;  
k) in case of termination or amendment of agreement, listed entity shall disclose 
additional details to the stock exchange(s):   
i. name of parties to the agreement;  
ii. nature of the agreement;  
iii. date of execution of the agreement;   
iv. details of amendment and impact thereof or reasons of termination and 
impact thereof.  
 
6. Disruption of operations of any one or more units or division of the listed entity 
due to natural calamity (earthquake, flood, fire etc.), force majeure or events such 
as strikes, lockouts etc.:  
 
6.1. At the time of occurrence:  
a) expected quantum of loss/damage caused;  
b) whether loss/damage covered by insurance or not including amount;  
c) estimated impact on the production/operations in case of strikes/lock outs;

[Page 233]
Page 233 of 291 
d) factory/unit where the strike/lock out takes place including reasons for such 
strike.  
 
6.2. Regularly, till complete normalcy is restored: 
a) insurance amount claimed and realized by the listed entity for the 
loss/damage;  
b) the actual amount of damage caused due to the natural calamity or other force 
majeure events;  
c) details of steps taken to restore normalcy and the impact of the natural 
calamity/other force majeure events on production or service, financials of the 
entity.  
 
7. Effect(s) arising out of change in the regulatory framework applicable to the 
listed entity.  
 
8. Pendency of any litigation(s) or dispute(s) or the outcome thereof which may 
have an impact on the listed entity:  The listed entity shall notify the stock 
exchange(s) upon it or its director or its key management personnel or its senior 
management or its promoter or its subsidiary becoming party to any litigation, 
assessment, adjudication, arbitration or dispute in conciliation proceedings or upon 
institution of any litigation, assessment, adjudication, arbitration or dispute including 
any ad-interim or interim orders passed against or in favour of the listed entity, the 
outcome of which can reasonably be expected to have an impact. In case the amount 
involved in ongoing litigations or disputes 173[***] become material on a cumulative 
basis, then the same shall also be required to be disclosed to the stock exchange(s). 
 
174[Explanation - Tax litigations or disputes, including demand notices, penalties, etc., 
shall be disclosed under sub -para 8 of Para B based on application of criteria for 
materiality in the following manner: 
(i) Disclosure of new tax litigations or disputes within twenty-four hours from the receipt 
of notice by the listed entity. 
(ii) Quarterly updates on ongoing tax litigations or disputes in the format as may be 
specified. 
(iii) Tax litigations or disputes, the outcomes of which are likely to have a high 
correlation, should be cumulated for determining materiality.] 
8.1. At the time of becoming the party:  
a) brief det ails of litigation viz. name(s) of the opposing party, court/ 
tribunal/agency where litigation is filed, brief details of dispute/litigation;  
b) expected financial implications, if any, due to compensation, penalty etc.;  
c) quantum of claims, if any;  
 
8.2. Regularly till the litigation is concluded or dispute is resolved:  
                                                           
173 Omitted “ with an opposing party ” pursuant to issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated 
December 31, 2024, which is incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular. 
174 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD -PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is 
incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular

[Page 234]
Page 234 of 291 
a) the details of any change in the status and / or any development in relation 
to such proceedings;  
b) in the case of litigation against key management personnel or its promoter or 
ultimate person in  control, regularly provide details of any change in the 
status and / or any development in relation to such proceedings;  
c) in the event of settlement of the proceedings, details of such settlement 
including - terms of the settlement, compensation/penalty p aid (if any) and 
impact of such settlement on the financial position of the listed entity.   
 
9. Frauds or defaults by employees of the listed entity which has or may have an 
impact on the listed entity:   
 
9.1. At the time of unearthing of fraud or occurrence of the default/arrest:  
a) nature of fraud/default/arrest;  
b) estimated impact on the listed entity;  
c) time of occurrence;  
d) person(s) involved;  
e) estimated amount involved (if any);  
f) whether such fraud has been reported to appropriate authorities.   
 
9.2. Subsequently intimate the stock exchange(s) further details regarding the 
fraud/default including:  
a) actual amount involved in the fraud /default (if any);  
b) actual impact of such fraud /default on the listed entity and its financials;   
c) corrective measures taken by the listed entity on account of such 
fraud/default.  
 
10. Options to purchase securities (including any Share Based Employee Benefit 
(SBEB) Scheme)  at the time of instituting the scheme and vesting or exercise of 
options: 
 
a) brief details of options granted;  
b) whether the scheme is in terms of SEBI (SBEB) Regulations, 2021 (if 
applicable);  
c) total number of shares covered by these options;  
d) pricing formula;  
e) options vested;  
f) time within which option may be exercised;  
g) options exercised;  
h) money realized by exercise of options;  
i) the total number of shares arising as a result of exercise of option;  
j) options lapsed;  
k) variation of terms of options;  
l) brief details of significant terms;  
m) subsequent changes or cancellation or exercise of such options;  
n) diluted earnings per share pursuant to issue of equity shares on exercise of 
options.

[Page 235]
Page 235 of 291 
 
11. Giving of guarantees or indemnity or becoming a surety, by whatever name 
called, for any third party:   
a) name of party for which such guarantees or indemnity or surety was given;   
b) whether the promoter/ promoter group/ group companies have any interest in 
this transaction? If yes, nature of interest and details thereof and whether the 
same is done at “arm’s length”;  
c) brief details of such guarantee or indemnity or becoming a surety viz. brief 
details of agreement entered (if any) including significant terms and conditions, 
including amount of guarantee;    
d) impact of such guarantees or indemnity or surety on listed entity.  
 
The above details for giving of guarantees or indemnity or becoming a surety, by 
whatever name called, including comfort letter, side letter, etc., shall also be required 
to be disclosed in case the amount involved in terms of outstanding guarantees, 
indemnity or surety for a third party become material on a cumulative basis. 
 
12. Granting, withdrawal, surrender, cancellation or suspension of key licenses or 
regulatory approvals:  
a) name of the regulatory or licensing authority;   
b) brief details of the approval/license obtained/ withdrawn/ surrendered;   
c) impact/relevance of such approval/license to the listed entity;  
d) withdrawal/cancellation or suspension of licence/approval by the regulatory or 
licensing authority, with reasons for such action, estimated impact (monetary or 
otherwise) on the listed entity and penalty, if any;  
e) period for which such approval/license is/was valid;  
f) Subsequently, the listed entity shall inform the stock exchange(s), the actual 
impact (monetary or otherwise) along with corrective actions taken by the listed 
entity pursuant to the withdrawal, cancellation or suspension of the key license/ 
approval.   
 
13. Delay or default in the payment of fines, penalties, dues, etc. to any regulatory, 
statutory, enforcement or judicial authority: 
a) name of the authority; 
b) details of fines, penalties, dues, etc. including amount; 
c) due date of payment; 
d) reasons for delay or default in payment; 
e) impact on financial, operation or other activities of the listed entity, quantifiable 
in monetary terms to the extent possible. 
 
In addition to the above, details of payment including date of payment and amount paid 
shall be disclosed upon payment of the fines, penalties, dues, etc. 
 
C. Details which a listed entity need to disclose in terms of Para C of Part A of Schedule III 
of LODR Regulations.

[Page 236]
Page 236 of 291 
ANNEXURE 18A 
 
175[TIMELINE FOR DISCLOSING EVENTS GIVEN IN PART A OF SCHEDULE III OF THE 
LODR REGULATIONS 
 
1. Regulation 30(6) of the LODR Regulations specifies that the listed entity shall first 
disclose to the stock exchange(s) all events or information which are material in terms 
of the provisions of the LODR Regulations as soon as reasonably possible and in any 
case not later than the following: 
i. thirty minutes from the closure of the meeting of the board of directors in which 
the decision pertaining to the event or information has been taken; however, 
in case the meeting of the board of directors closes after normal trading hours 
of that day but more than three hours before the beginning of the normal 
trading hours of the next trading day, the listed entity shall disclose the decision 
pertaining to the event or information, within three hours from t he closure of 
the board meeting; 
ii. twelve hours from the occurrence of the event or information, in case the event 
or information is emanating from within the listed entity; 
iii. twenty four hours from the occurrence of the event or information, in case the 
event or information is not emanating from within the listed entity. 
 
Further, disclosure with respect to events for which timelines have been specified in 
Part A of Schedule III of the LODR Regulations shall be made within such timelines. 
 
2. In order to bring cl arity in the above timelines for disclosure of material events or 
information, the timeline for disclosure of events specified in Part A of Schedule III of 
the LODR Regulations is given in the table below: 
 
Table I: Timeline for disclosure of events specified in Part A of Schedule III of the 
LODR Regulations 
 
Para 
/ 
sub-
para 
Events Timeline for disclosure 
A. Events which shall be disclosed without any 
application of the guidelines for materiality as 
specified in sub-regulation (4) of regulation (30): 
 
1. Acquisition(s) (including agreement to acquire), 
Scheme of Arrangement (amalgamation/ merger/ 
demerger/restructuring), sale or disposal of any 
unit(s), division(s), whole or substantially the whole of 
the undertaking(s) or subsidiary of the listed en tity, 
Within 12 hours *  
 
Acquisition of shares or 
voting rights by listed 
entities in an unlisted 
company, aggregating to 
                                                           
175Text of Annexure 18A is substituted with text of Annexure 5 of the SEBI SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated    
December 31, 2024. For Annexure 18A prior to substitution, user may refer Master Circular dated November 11, 2024 available 
on the SEBI Website.

[Page 237]
Page 237 of 291 
Para 
/ 
sub-
para 
Events Timeline for disclosure 
sale of stake in the associate company of the listed 
entity or any other restructuring. 
5% or any subsequent 
change in holding 
exceeding 2%, shall be 
disclosed quarterly as part 
of Integrated Filing 
(Governance). 
2. Issuance or forfeiture of securities, split or 
consolidation of shares, buyback of securities, any 
restriction on transferability of securities or alteration 
in terms  or structure of existing securities including 
forfeiture, reissue of forfeited securities, alteration of 
calls, redemption of securities etc. 
Within 12 hours * 
3. New Ratings(s) or Revision in Rating(s). Within 24 hours 
4. Outcome of Meetings of the board of directors As specified in clause (i) of 
Regulation 30(6) of LODR. 
5. Agreements (viz. shareholder agreement(s), joint 
venture agreement(s), family settlement 
agreement(s) (to the extent that it impacts 
management and control of the listed entity), 
agreement(s)/treaty(ies)/contract(s) with media 
companies) which are binding and not in normal 
course of business, revision(s) or amendment(s) and 
termination(s) thereof. 
 
Within 12 hours * (for 
agreements where listed 
entity is a party); 
 
Within 24 hours  
(for agreements where 
listed entity is not a party). 
5A. Agreements entered into by the shareholders, 
promoters, promoter group entities, related parties, 
directors, key managerial personnel, employees of 
the listed entity or of its holding, subsidiary o r 
associate company, among themselves or with the 
listed entity or with a third party, solely or jointly, 
which, either directly or indirectly or potentially or 
whose purpose and effect is to, impact the 
management or control of the listed entity or impose  
any restriction or create any liability upon the listed 
entity, shall be disclosed to the Stock Exchanges, 
including disclosure of any rescission, amendment or 
alteration of such agreements thereto, whether or not 
the listed entity is a party to such agreements: 
Provided that such agreements entered into by a 
listed entity in the normal course of business shall not 
be required to be disclosed unless they, either directly 
or indirectly or potentially or whose purpose and effect 
is to, impact the management or control of the listed 
Within 12 hours * (for 
agreements where listed 
entity is a party); 
 
Within 24 hours 
(for agreements where 
listed entity is not a party).

[Page 238]
Page 238 of 291 
Para 
/ 
sub-
para 
Events Timeline for disclosure 
entity or they are required to be disclosed in terms of 
any other provisions of these regulations. 
6. Fraud or defaults by a listed entity, its promoter, 
director, key managerial personnel, senior 
management or subsidiary or arrest of key managerial 
personnel, senior management, promoter or director 
whether occurred within India or abroad. 
Within 24 hours 
7. Change in directors, key managerial personnel 
(Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, Company Secretary etc.), senior 
management, Auditor and Compliance Officer. 
Within 12 hours * (except 
in case resignation); 
 
Within 24 hours (in case of 
resignation) 
7A. In case of resignation of the auditor of the listed entity, 
detailed reasons for resignation of auditor, as given by 
the said auditor. 
Timeline as specified in 
sub-para 7A of Para A of 
Schedule III. 
7B. Resignation of independent director including reasons 
for resignation. 
Timeline as specified in 
sub-para 7B of Para A of 
Schedule III. 
7C. Letter of resignation along with detailed reasons for 
the resignation as given by the key managerial 
personnel, senior management, Compliance Officer 
or director. 
Timeline as specified in 
sub-para 7C of Para A of 
Schedule III. 
7D. In case the Managing Director or Chief Executive 
Officer of the listed entity was indisposed or 
unavailable to fulfil the requirements o f the role in a 
regular manner for more than forty five days in any 
rolling period of ninety days, the same along with the 
reasons for such indisposition or unavailability, shall 
be disclosed to the stock exchange(s). 
Within 12 hours * 
8. Appointment or d iscontinuation of share transfer 
agent. 
Within 12 hours * 
9. Resolution plan/ Restructuring in relation to 
loans/borrowings from banks/financial institutions. 
Within 24 hours 
10. One time settlement with a bank. Within 24 hours 
11. Winding-up petition filed by any party / creditors. Within 24 hours 
12. Issuance of notices, call letters, resolutions and 
circulars sent to shareholders, debenture holders or 
creditors or any class of them or advertised in the 
media by the listed entity. 
Within 12 hours * 
13. Proceedings of annual and extraordinary general 
meetings of the listed entity. 
Within 12 hours * 
14. Amendments to memorandum and articles of 
association of listed entity, in brief.  
Within 12 hours *

[Page 239]
Page 239 of 291 
Para 
/ 
sub-
para 
Events Timeline for disclosure 
15. (a) Schedule of analysts or institutional investors 
meet and presentations made by the listed entity 
to analysts or institutional investors. 
(b) Audio or video recordings and transcripts of post 
earnings/quarterly calls, by whatever name 
called, conducted physically or through digital 
means. 
Timeline as specified in 
sub-para 15 of Para A of 
Schedule III. 
16. Events in relation to the corporate insolvency 
resolution process (CIRP) of a listed corporate debtor 
under the Insolvency Code. 
Within 24 hours 
17. Initiation of Forensic audit: In case of initiation of 
forensic audit, (by whatever name called), the 
following disclosures shall be made to the stock 
exchanges by listed entities: 
(a) The fact of initiation of forensic audit along-with 
name of entity initiating the audit and reasons 
for the same, if available; 
(b) Final forensic audit report (other than for 
forensic audit initiated by regulatory / 
enforcement agencies) on receipt by the listed 
entity along with comments of the 
management, if any. 
Within 12 hours * 
(if initiated by the listed 
entity); 
 
Within 24 hours 
(if initiated by external 
agency). 
18. Announcement or communication through social 
media intermediaries or mainstream media by 
directors, promoters, key managerial personnel or 
senior management of a listed entity, in relation to any 
event or information which is material for the listed 
entity in terms of regulation 30 of these regulations 
and is not already made available in the public domain 
by the listed entity. 
Within 24 hours 
19. Action(s) initiated or orders passed by any regulatory, 
statutory, enforcement authority or judicial body 
against the listed entity or its directors, key managerial 
personnel, senior management, promoter or 
subsidiary, in relation to the listed entity, in respect of 
the following: 
1. search or seizure; or 
2. re-opening of accounts under section 130 of 
the Companies Act, 2013; or 
3. investigation under the provisions of Chapter 
XIV of the Companies Act, 2013; 
Within 24 hours 
20. Action(s) taken or orders passed by any regulatory, 
statutory, enforcement authority or judicial body 
Within 24 hours

[Page 240]
Page 240 of 291 
Para 
/ 
sub-
para 
Events Timeline for disclosure 
against the listed entity or its directors, key managerial 
personnel, senior management, promoter or 
subsidiary, in relation to the listed entity, in respect of 
the following: 
(a) suspension; 
(b) Imposition of fine or penalty; 
(c) settlement of proceedings;   
(d) debarment; 
(e) disqualification; 
(f) closure of operations; 
(g) sanctions imposed; 
(h) warning or caution; or 
(i) any other similar action(s) by whatever name 
called; 
Imposition of fine or penalty 
which are  lower than the 
monetary thresholds 
specified under Para A(20) 
of Part A of Schedule III of 
LODR shall be disclosed 
quarterly as part of 
Integrated Filing 
(Governance). 
21. Voluntary revision of financial statements or the report 
of the board of directors  of the listed entity under 
section 131 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
Within 12 hours * 
B. Events which shall be disclosed upon application 
of the guidelines for materiality referred sub -
regulation (4) of regulation (30) 
 
1. Commencement or any postponement in the date of 
commencement of commercial production or 
commercial operations of any unit/division 
Within 12 hours * 
2. Any of the following events pertaining to the listed 
entity: 
(i) arrangements for strategic, technical, 
manufacturing, or marketing tie-up; or 
(ii) adoption of new line(s) of business; or 
(iii) closure of operation of any unit, division, or 
subsidiary (entirety or piecemeal) 
Within 12 hours * 
3. Capacity addition or product launch. Within 12 hours * 
4. Awarding, bagging/ receiving, amendment or 
termination of awarded/bagged orders/contracts not 
in the normal course of business. 
Within 24 hours 
5. Agreements (viz. loan agreement(s) or any other 
agreement(s) which are binding and not in normal 
course of business) and revision(s) or amendment(s) 
or termination(s) thereof. 
Within 12 hours * (for 
agreements where listed 
entity is a party); 
 
Within 24 hours 
(for agreements where 
listed entity is not a party). 
6. Disruption of operations of any one or more units or 
division of the listed entity due to natural calamity 
Within 24 hours

[Page 241]
Page 241 of 291 
Para 
/ 
sub-
para 
Events Timeline for disclosure 
(earthquake, flood, fire etc.), force majeure or events 
such as strikes, lockouts etc. 
7. Effect(s) arising out of change in the regulatory 
framework applicable to the listed entity. 
Within 24 hours 
8. Pendency of any litigation(s) or dispute(s) or the 
outcome thereof which may have an impact on the 
listed entity. 
Within 24 hours (except as 
provided under Regulation 
30(6) of LODR) 
 
Updates on ongoing tax 
litigations or disputes shall 
be disclosed quarterly as 
part of Integrated Filing 
(Governance). 
9. Frauds or defaults by employees of the listed entity 
which has or may have an impact on the listed entity. 
Within 24 hours 
10. Options to purchase securities including any 
ESOP/ESPS Scheme. 
Within 12 hours * 
11. Giving of guarantees or indemnity or becoming a 
surety, by whatever name called, for any third party. 
Within 12 hours * 
12. Granting, withdrawal, surrender, cancellation or 
suspension of key licenses or regulatory approvals. 
Within 24 hours 
13. Delay or default in the payment of fines, penalties, 
dues, etc. to any regulatory, statutory, enforcement or 
judicial authority. 
Within 12 hours * 
C. Any other information/event viz. major development 
that is likely to affect business, e.g. emergence of new 
technologies, expiry of patents, any change of 
accounting policy that may have a significant impact 
on the accounts, etc. and brief details thereof and any 
other information which is exclusively known to the 
listed entity which may be necessa ry to enable the 
holders of securities of the listed entity to appraise its 
position and to avoid the establishment of a false 
market in such securities. 
Within 24 hours 
D. Without prejudice to the generality of para (A), (B) and 
(C) above, the listed entity may make disclosures of 
event/information as specified by the Board from time 
to time. 
Timeline as specified by 
the Board. 
 
* Note: In case the event or information emanates from a decision taken in a meeting of 
board of directors, the same shall be disclosed within 30 minutes or 3 hours, as applicable 
as per Regulation 30(6), from the closure of such meeting as against the timeline indicated 
in the table above.]

[Page 242]
Page 242 of 291 
 
 
 
3. The timeline for making disclosure under Regulation 30A of the LODR Regulations is 
given below: 
 Reg. 30A(1): the parties to the agreements shall inform the listed entity about 
the agreement to which such a listed entity is not a party within two working 
days of entering into the agreement or signing an agreement to enter into such 
agreements.] 
 
***

[Page 243]
Page 243 of 291 
ANNEXURE 19 
GUIDANCE ON WHEN AN EVENT / INFORMATION CAN BE SAID TO HAVE 
OCCURRED FOR DISCLOSURES UNDER REGULATION 30 OF THE LODR 
REGULATIONS 
 
1. The listed entity may be confronted with the question as to when an event/information 
can be said to have occurred for making disclosures under regulation 30 read with 
Schedule III of the LODR Regulations. 
 
2. In certain instances, the answer to above question would depend upon the stage of 
discussion, negotiation or approval and in other instances where there is no such 
discussion, negotiation or approval required viz. in case of natural calamities, disruptions 
etc., the answer to the above question would depend upon the timing when the listed 
entity became aware of the event/information.   
 
2.1. In the former, the events/information can be said to have occurred upon receipt of 
approval of Board of Directors e.g. further issue of capital by rights issuance and 
in certain events/information after receipt of approval of both i.e. Board of 
Directors and Shareholders. 
 
However, considering the price sensitivity involved, for certain events e.g. 
decision on declaration of dividends etc., disclosure shall be made on receipt of 
approval of the event by the Board of Directors, pending Shareholder’s approval. 
In case in-principle approval or approval to explore (which is not final approval) is 
given by the Board of Directors, t he same shall not require disclosure under 
regulation 30 of the LODR Regulations. 
2.2. In the latter, the events/information can be said to have occurred when a listed 
entity becomes aware of the events/information, or as soon as, an officer of the 
entity has, or ought to have reasonably come into possession of the information 
in the course of the performance of his duties. 
 
Here, the term ‘officer’ shall have the same meaning as defined under the 
Companies Act, 2013 and shall also include promoter of the listed entity. 
3. Notwithstanding the above, listed entities shall confirm, deny or clarify any reported event 
or information in the mainstream media in terms of regulation 30(11) of the LODR 
Regulations.

[Page 244]
Page 244 of 291 
ANNEXURE 19A 
 
GUIDANCE ON THE CRITERIA FOR DETERMINATION OF MATERIALITY OF 
EVENTS / INFORMATION 
 
1. The criteria for determination of materiality of events / information is specified in 
regulation 30(4) of the LODR Regulations. One of the criteria is that the omission of an 
event or information, whose value or the expected impact in terms of value, exceeds the 
lower of the following: 
i. two percent of turnover, as per the last audited consolidated financial statements 
of the listed entity; 
ii. two percent of net worth, as per the last audited consolidated financial statements 
of the listed entity, except in case the arithmetic value of the net worth is negative; 
iii. five percent of the average of absolute value of profit or loss after tax, as per  the 
last three audited consolidated financial statements of the listed entity; 
 
2. In respect to the above, it is clarified that the average of absolute value of profit or loss 
is required to be considered by disregarding the ‘sign’ (positive or negative) that denotes 
such value as the said value / figure is required only for determining t he threshold for 
‘materiality’ of the event and not for any commercial consideration . The following 
illustration is provided in this regard for clarity: 
 
Table I: Illustration for calculation of average of absolute value of 
profit or loss after tax 
 
(Amount in 
Rs. crore) 
Profit/loss 
after tax  
 
Absolute value of 
profit/loss after tax 
Average of absolute 
value of profit/loss 
after tax for the 3 years 
FY 2020-21 (20) 20 
(20+50+20) / 3 = 30 FY 2021-22 50 50 
FY 2022-23 (20) 20 
 
Further, it is clarified that in case a listed entity does not have a track record of three years 
of financials, say, in case of a demerged entity, the aforesaid average may be taken for the 
period / number of years as may be available.

[Page 245]
Page 245 of 291 
ANNEXURE19AA 
 
FRAMEWORK FOR CONSIDERING UNAFFECTED PRICE 
1. The calculation of adjusted volume weighted average price (“ VWAP”) for considering 
unaffected price is given below: 
1.1. The variation in daily WAP from the day of material price movement till the end of 
the next trading day after confirmation of the rumour shall be attributed to the rumour 
and confirmation of the rumour (“WAP variation”).  
1.2. The adjusted daily WAP shall be calculated by excluding the WAP variation from 
the daily WAP in the look back period from the day of the material price movement 
onwards. The adjusted daily WAP from the day of material price movement till the 
end of the next trading day after confirmation of the rumour shall be same as the 
daily WAP on the trading day preceding the day of material price movement.  
1.3. The adjusted VWAP for the look back period shall be calculated based on the 
adjusted daily WAP calculated as mentioned at para 1.1 and 1.2 above, and as 
illustrated below. 
2. Illustration for calculation of VWAP under the above proposed framework in case of 
preferential issue to qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) under SEBI (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 is given in the table below: 
Table 1: Illustration for calculation of VWAP
Trading 
Day 
(A) 
Daily 
WAP  
(B) 
Adjusted 
Daily WAP 
(C) 
No. of 
Shares 
traded (D) 
Remarks 
(E) 
20-Jul 1,045.06  1,045.06  47,004    
21-Jul 1,053.26    1,053.26  24,750    
24-Jul 1,047.07  1,047.07  37,262  T-10 
25-Jul 1,054.90  1,054.90  15,000    
26-Jul 1,060.76  1,060.76  44,519    
27-Jul 1,164.47  1,060.76  7,60,853  Date of material price movement 
28-Jul 1,173.45  1,060.76  2,38,320  Date of rumour confirmation 
31-Jul 1,178.90  1,060.76  88,450  Next trading day after rumour 
confirmation 
01-Aug 1,173.16   1,055.02  68,613    
02-Aug 1,165.71  1,047.57  41,954    
03-Aug 1,163.36  1,045.23  56,267    
04-Aug 1,212.36  1,094.23  5,99,197  T-1 
07-Aug 1,208.33  1,090.20  1,08,762  Relevant Date (T) – Date of Board 
approval to preferential issue to QIBs

[Page 246]
Page 246 of 291 
2.1. The variation in daily WAP (in column B) from the day of material price movement (July 27, 
2023) till the end of the next trading day after confirmation of the rumour (July 31, 2023) is 
the VWAP variation. The WAP variation is Rs. 118.14.  
2.2. Adjusted daily WAP (in column C) has been calculated from the day of material price 
movement onwards (i.e. from July 27, 2023). The adjusted daily WAP from the day of 
material price movement (July 27, 2023) till the end of the next trading day (July 31, 
2023)after confirmation of the rumour is same as the daily WAP on the trading day preceding 
the day of material price movement (i.e. July 26, 2023) viz. Rs. 1060.76. 
2.3. Adjusted daily WAP (in column C) from August 1, 2023 onwards has been calculated by 
subtracting the WAP variation (i.e. Rs. 118.14) from the daily WAP. 
2.4. VWAP in the look back period (T-1 to T-10) calculated under existing ICDR Regulations using 
the daily WAP is Rs. 1,175.78. Adjusted VWAP in the look back period (T -1 to T -10) 
calculated using the adjusted daily WAP isRs. 1,069.80. 
3. In case the price variation due to confirmation of the rumour, hits the price band limit on the next 
trading day post rumour confirmation, the price variation in the subsequent trading days shall be 
included for adjustment till such day the price does not hit the band limit. 
4. The unaffected price shall be applicable only if the listed entity has confirmed the rumour pertaining 
to the transaction within 24 hours from the trigger of material price movement. 
5. The unaffected price shall be applicable for a period of 60 days or 180 days, as applicable based 
on the stage of transaction, from the date of confirmation of the market rumour till the ‘relevant date’ 
under the existing regulations (public announcement, board approval, et c., as the case may be) . 
The stages of transaction and applicability period of the unaffected price shall be specified in the 
Industry Standards on Regulation 30(11) of LODR Regulations. 
6. In case rumour pertaining to a transaction has been confirmed by the listed entity and subsequent 
rumour(s) are reported in the mainstream media with material update to the transaction which 
require confirmation under Regulation 30(11) of LODR Regulations, then the unaffected priceshall 
be applicable for each instance of co nfirmation of rumour. The following illustration is given for 
clarity: 
 
6.1. In the illustration given in Table 1 above, the rumour has been confirmed on July 28, 2023 
and the unaffected price calculated is applicable till September 26, 2023 (i.e. 60 days from 
the confirmation of the rumour, based on the stage of the transaction).  
6.2. Subsequently, rumour pertaining to the same transaction may be reported in the mainstream 
media with material update to the transaction which require confirmation under Regulation 
30(11) of LODR Regulations. The unaffected price subsequent to confirmation of rumour on, 
say August 28, 2023 shall be applicable till October 27, 2023 (i.e. 60 days from the 
confirmation of the rumour, based on the stage of the transaction). 
6.3. The different scenarios for applicability of unaffected price are illustrated in the table below:

[Page 247]
Page 247 of 291 
 
Table 2: Illustration for applicability of unaffected price 
 
S. 
No. 
Relevant date (i.e. Date of 
approval by board of 
directors to preferential 
issue to QIBs) 
Applicability of 
unaffected price for the 
rumour confirmation on 
July 28, 2023 
Applicability of unaffected 
price for the rumour 
confirmation on August 
28, 2023 
1. July 29, 2023 to August 28, 
2023 
Applicable Not applicable 
2. August 29, 2023 to 
September 26, 2023 
Applicable Applicable 
3. September 27, 2023 to 
October 27, 2023 
Not applicable Applicable 
4. October 28, 2023 onwards Not applicable Not applicable 
 
****

[Page 248]
Page 248 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 20 
FORMAT FOR DISCLOSURE OF DIVERGENCE IN ASSET CLASSIFICATION AND 
PROVISIONING FOR NPAS 
 
 
Sr. 
No.   
Particulars  Amount  (in 
₹ Crore) 
1.  Gross NPAs as on March 31, 20XX* as reported by the bank   
2.  Gross NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as assessed by RBI   
3.  Divergence in Gross NPAs (2-1)   
4.  Net NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as reported by the bank   
5.  Net NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as assessed by RBI   
6.  Divergence in Net NPAs (5-4)   
7.  Provisions for NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as reported by the 
bank   
8.  Provisions for NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as assessed by 
RBI   
9.  Divergence in provisioning (8-7)   
10. Reported Profit before Provisions and Contingencies for the 
year ended March 31, 20XX 
 
11.  Reported Net Profit after Tax (PAT) for the year ended March 
31, 20XX   
12.  
Adjusted (notional) Net Profit after Tax (PAT) for the year ended 
March 31, 20XX after considering the divergence in 
provisioning  
 
* March 31, 20XX is the close of the reference period in respect of which divergences 
were assessed

[Page 249]
Page 249 of 291 
ANNEXURE 21 
 
FORMAT FOR INFORMATION TO BE OBTAINED FROM THE STATUTORY AUDITOR UPON 
RESIGNATION 
 
1. Name of the listed entity/ material subsidiary: 
2. Details of the statutory auditor: 
a. Name:  
b. Address:  
c. Phone number:  
d. Email:  
3. Details of association with the listed entity/ material subsidiary:  
a. Date on which the statutory auditor was appointed:   
b. Date on which the term of the statutory auditor was scheduled to expire:    
c. Prior to resignation, the latest audit report/limited review report submitted by the auditor and 
date of its submission.  
4. Detailed reasons for resignation:  
5. In case of any concerns, efforts made by the auditor prior to resignation (including appro aching 
the Audit Committee/Board of Directors along with the date of communication made to the Audit 
Committee/Board of Directors)  
6. In case the information requested by the auditor was not provided, then following shall be 
disclosed:  
a. Whether the inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence was due to a 
management-imposed limitation or circumstances beyond the control of the management.   
b. Whether the lack of information would have significant impact on the financial 
statements/results.   
c. Whether the auditor has performed alternative procedures to obtain appropriate evidence for 
the purposes of audit/limited review as laid down in SA 705 (Revised)   
d. Whether the lack of information was prevalent in the previous reported financial 
statements/results. If yes, on what basis the previous audit/limited review reports were issued.  
7. Any other facts relevant to the resignation:   
 
Declaration 
1. I/ We he reby confirm that the information given in this letter and its attachments is correct and 
complete.   
2. I/ We hereby confirm that there is no other material reason other than those provided above for my 
resignation/ resignation of my firm.   
 
Signature of the authorized signatory  
Date:   
Place:   
Encl:

[Page 250]
Page 250 of 291 
ANNEXURE 22 
 
FORMAT FOR SUBMISSION OF VOTING RESULTS 
 
 
Date of the AGM/EGM   
Total number of shareholders on record date   
No. of shareholders present in the meeting either in person or 
through proxy:   
Promoters and Promoter Group:  
Public:  
 
No. of Shareholders attended the meeting through Video 
Conferencing   
Promoters and Promoter Group:  
Public: 
 
 
 
Agenda- wise disclosure (to be disclosed separately for each agenda item) 
 
Resolution required: (Ordinary/ Special)       
Whether promoter/ promoter group are interested in 
the agenda/resolution?

[Page 251]
Page 251 of 291 
Category  Mode of Voting  No. of 
shares 
held  
(1)  
No. of 
votes 
polled  
(2)  
% of votes 
Polled on 
outstanding 
shares 
(3)=[(2)/(1)]* 
100 
No. 
ofVotes 
– in 
favour  
(4)  
No. of 
Votes – 
against  
(5) 
% of Votes in 
favour on votes 
polled 
(6)=[(4)/(2)]*100 
% of Votes against 
on votes polled 
(7)=[(5)/(2)]*100 
Promoter 
and 
Promoter  
Group  
E-Voting         
Poll         
Postal Ballot (if applicable)         
Total         
Public- 
Institutions   
E-Voting         
Poll         
Postal Ballot (if applicable)         
Total         
Public-  
Non  
Institutions   
E-Voting         
Poll         
Postal Ballot (if applicable)         
Total         
Total

[Page 252]
Page 252 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 23 
GUIDANCE NOTE ON BOARD EVALUATION 
 
A. Background of Board Evaluation in India  
 
The Companies Act, 2013 and the LODR Regulations provide for several mandatory 
provisions for Board Evaluation on who is to be evaluated, who is to evaluate such persons, 
disclosure requirements, etc. The main provisions of Companies Act, 2013 and the LODR  
Regulations on Board Evaluation as applicable to listed entities is summarized as under:  
1. Role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC): 
a. NRC shall formulate of criteria for evaluation of performance of independent 
directors and the board of directors.  
b. NRC shall carry out evaluation of every director’s performance.  
c. NRC shall determine whether to extend or continue the term of appointment 
of the independent director, on the basis of the report of performance 
evaluation of independent directors.  
2. Role of independent directors: 
a. In the meeting of independent directors of the company (without the 
attendance of non -independent directors and management), such directors 
shall:  
i. review the performance of non-independent directors and the Board as 
a whole.  
ii. review the performance of the Chairperson of the company, taking into 
account the views of executive directors and non-executive directors.  
iii. iii. assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information 
between the company management and the Bo ard that is necessary 
for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform their duties.  
b. The independent directors shall bring an objective view in the evaluation of 
the performance of board and management.  
3. Evaluation of independent directors : The perform ance evaluation of independent 
directors shall be done by the entire Board of Directors, excluding the director being 
evaluated. 
 
4. Disclosure requirements: 
a. A statement indicating the manner in which formal annual evaluation has been 
made by the Board of its own performance and that of its committees and 
individual directors shall be included in the report by Board of Directors placed 
in the general meeting.   
b. The performance evaluation criteria for independent directors shall be 
disclosed in the section on the corporate governance of the annual report.

[Page 253]
Page 253 of 291 
 
B. Subject of Evaluation  
 
As required under the LODR Regulations and Companies Act, the evaluation of the Boar d 
involves multiple levels:  
1. Board as a whole  
2. Committees of the Board    
3. Individual Directors and Chairperson (including Chairperson, CEO, Independent 
Directors, Non-independent directors, etc.)   
 
C. Process of Evaluation  
 
The process of evaluation is generally elaborate, stretching across pre-evaluation, evaluation 
and post- evaluation processes including, inter alia, the following:  
1. Identifying the objectives of evaluation: 
 
Identifying the objectives of the evaluation is the first and a crucial step in the Board 
Evaluation process. Clear identification of objectives is key to streamlining the process of 
evaluation, analyzing the results and taking appropriate and corrective action.   
 
The objectives may be:   
a) General objectives- Standard Objectives for all Board evaluations of the entity  
b) Specific objectives - Objectives specific to the current Board evaluation based on 
recent events, new issues of concern, etc.   
 
2. Criteria of evaluation: 
The criteria for evaluation under different categories depend on the role the person/group 
plays in the organization. For instance, the evaluation of the Chairperson may evaluate 
the person’s leadership, coordination and steering skills, etc. which may be different from 
the role of other directors. The criteria for every evaluation may be decided at every level 
depending on the functions, responsibilities, competencies required, nature of business, 
etc. As per SEBI LODR, the primary responsibility of formulation of criteria lies on the 
NRC.   
Indicative criteria that may be used for different directors/groups are:  
A. Board as a whole 
 
a. Structure of the Board: 
i. Competency of directors: (Different competencies may be identified as may be 
required for effective functioning of the entity and the Board) -Whether Board as 
a whole has directors with a proper mix of competencies to conduct its affairs 
effectively. 
ii. Experience of directors: Whether Board as a whole has directors with enough 
experience to conduct its affairs effectively.

[Page 254]
Page 254 of 291 
 
iii. Mix of qualifications: Whether Board as a whole has directors with a proper mix 
of qualifications to conduct its affairs effectively.  
iv. Diversity in Board under various parameters: Gender/background/ 
competence/experience, etc. – Whether there is sufficient divers ity in the Board 
on the aforesaid parameters.  
v. Appointment to the Board: Whether the process of appointment to the board of 
directors is clear and transparent and includes provisions to consider diversity of 
thought, experience, knowledge, perspective and gender in the board of directors.  
 
b. Meetings of the Board: 
i. Regularity of meetings: Whether meetings are being held on a regular basis  
 
ii. Frequency: 
1. Whether the Board meets frequently   
2. Whether the frequency of such meetings is enough for the Board to undertake 
its duties properly  
 
iii. Logistics: Whether the logistics for the meeting is being handled properly- venue, 
format, timing, etc.   
 
iv. Agenda:  
1. Whether the agenda is circulated well before the meeting  
2. Whether the agenda has all relevant information to take decision on the 
matter  
3. Whether the agenda is up to date, regularly reviewed and involves major 
substantial decisions   
4. Whether the quality of agenda and Board papers is up to the mark (explains 
issues properly, not overly lengthy, etc.)  
5. Whether outstanding items of previous meetings are followed -up and taken 
up in subsequent agendas  
6. Whether the time allotted for the every item (especially substantive items) in 
the agenda of the meeting is sufficient  for adequate discussions on the 
subject  
7. Whether the Board is able to finish discussion and decision on all agenda 
items in the meetings  
8. Whether adequate and timely inputs are taken from the Board members prior 
to setting of the Agenda for the meeting  
9. Whether the agenda includes adequate information on Committee’s activities  
 
v. Discussions and dissent:  
1. Whether the Board discusses every issue comprehensively and depending 
on the importance of the subject   
2. Whether the environment of the meeting induces free -flowing free flowing 
discussions, healthy debate and contribution by everyone without any fear or 
fervour  
3. Whether the discussions generally add value to the decision making  
4. Whether the Board tends towar ds groupthink and whether critical and 
dissenting suggestions are welcomed

[Page 255]
Page 255 of 291 
 
5. Whether all members actively participate in the discussions  
6. Whether overall, the Board functions constructively as a team  
 
vi. Recording of minutes:  
1. Whether the minutes are being re corded properly - clearly, completely, 
accurately and consistently.   
2. Whether the minutes are approved properly in accordance with set 
procedures.  
3. Whether the minutes are timely circulated to all the Board members  
4. Whether dissenting views are recorded in the minutes  
 
vii. Dissemination of information:  
1. Whether all the information pertaining to the meeting are disseminated to the 
members timely, frequently, accurately, regularly  
2. Whether Board is adequately informed of material matters in between 
meetings   
 
c. Functions of the Board: 
 
(Functions of the Board have been specified in detail in Chapter II of the LODR 
Regulations and Companies Act, 2013) 
 
i. Role and responsibilities of the Board:  Whether the same are clearly 
documented E.g. Difference in roles of Chairman and CEO, Matters reserved for 
the Board, etc.   
ii. Strategy and performance evaluation:   
1. Whether significant time of the Board is being devoted to management of 
current and potential strategic issues 
2. Whether various scenario planning is used to evaluate strategic risks  
3. Whether the Board overall reviews and guides corporate strategy, major 
plans of action, risk policy, annual budgets and business plans, sets 
performance objectives, monitored implementation and corporate 
performance, and oversees major capital expenditures, acquisitions and 
divestments.  
 
iii. Governance and compliance:   
1. Whether adequate time of the Board is being devoted to analyse and 
examine governance and compliance issues   
2. Whether the Board monitors the effectiveness of its governance practices 
and makes changes as needed  
3. Whether the Board ensures the integrity of the entity’s accounting and 
financial reporting systems, including the independent audit, and that 
appropriate systems of control are in place, in particular, systems for risk 
management, financial and operational control, and compliance with the law 
and relevant standards.  
4. Whether the Board oversees the process of disclosure and communications.

[Page 256]
Page 256 of 291 
 
5. Whether the Board evaluates and analyses the compliance certificate from 
the auditors / practicing company secretaries regarding compliance of 
conditions of corporate governance.  
 
iv. Evaluation of Risks:   
1. Whether Board undertakes a review of the high risk i ssues impacting the 
organization regularly  
2. In assessment of risks, whether it is ensured that, while rightly encouraging 
positive thinking, these do not result in over -optimism that either leads to 
significant risks not being recognised or exposes the entity to excessive risk.  
 
v. Grievance redressal for Investors:  
Whether the Board regularly reviews the grievance redressal mechanism of 
investors, details of grievances received, disposed of and those remaining 
unresolved.   
 
vi. Conflict of interest:  
1. Whether the Board monitors and manages potential conflicts of interest of 
management, members of the board of directors and shareholders, including 
misuse of corporate assets and abuse in related party transactions  
2. Whether a sufficient number of non -executive memb ers of the board of 
directors capable of exercising independent judgement are assigned to tasks 
where there is a potential for conflict of interest  
 
vii. Stakeholder value and responsibility:   
1. Whether the decision making process of the Board is adequate to as sess 
creation of stakeholder value  
2. Whether the Board has mechanisms in place to communicate and engage 
with various stakeholders  
3. Whether the Board acts on a fully informed basis, in good faith, with due 
diligence and care, with high ethical standards and in the best interest of the 
entity and the stakeholders.  
4. Whether the Board treats shareholders and stakeholders fairly where 
decisions of the board of directors may affect different shareholder/ 
stakeholder groups differently.  
5. Whether the Board regularly reviews the Business Responsibility Reporting / 
related corporate social responsibility initiatives of the entity and contribution 
to society, environment etc.   
 
viii. Corporate culture and values: Whether the Board sets a corporate culture and 
the values by which executives throughout a group shall behave  
 
ix. Review of Board evaluation:  Whether the Board monitors and reviews the 
Board evaluation framework.  
 
x. Facilitation of independent directors: Whether the Board facilitates the 
independent directors to perform their role effectively as a member of the board

[Page 257]
Page 257 of 291 
 
of directors and also a member of a committee of board of directors and any 
criticism by such directors is taken constructively.   
 
d. Board and management: 
i. Evaluation of performance of the management and feedback: 
1. Whether the Board evaluates and monitors management, especially the CEO 
regularly and fairly and provides constructive feedback and strategic 
guidance  
2. Whether the measures used are broad enough to monitor performance of the 
management  
3. Whether the managem ent’s performance is benchmarked against industry 
peers  
4. Whether remuneration of the management is in line with its performance and 
with industry peers  
5. Whether remuneration of the Board and the management is aligned with the 
longer term interests of the entity and its shareholders.   
6. Whether the Board selects, compensates, monitors and, when necessary, 
replaces key managerial personnel based on such evaluation.   
7. Whether the Board ‘steps back’ to assist executive management by 
challenging the assumptions u nderlying strategy, strategic initiatives (such 
as acquisitions), risk appetite, exposures and the key areas of the entity’s 
focus.  
 
ii. Independence of the management from the Board: Whether the level of 
independence of the management from the Board is adequate   
 
iii. Access of the management to the Board and Board access to the 
management: Whether the Board and the management are able to actively 
access each other and exchange information   
 
iv. Secretarial support : Whether adequate secretarial and logistical suppor t is 
available for conducting Board meetings   
 
v. Fund availability: Whether sufficient funds are made available to the Board for 
conducting its meeting effectively, seeking expert advice E.g. Legal, accounting, 
etc.  
 
vi. Succession plan: Whether an appropriate and adequate succession plan is in 
place and is being reviewed and overseen regularly by the Board  
 
e. Professional development: 
i. Whether adequate induction and professional development programmes are 
made available to new and old directors   
ii. Whether continuing directors training is provided to ensure that the members of 
board of directors are kept up to date.

[Page 258]
Page 258 of 291 
 
B. Committees of the Board 
a. Mandate and composition : Whether the mandate, composition and working 
procedures of committees of the board of directors is clearly defined and 
disclosed.  
 
b. Effectiveness of the Committee : Whether the Committee has fulfilled its 
functions as assigned by the Board and laws as may be applicable 
(For different Committees, different functions may be laid out as sub -criteria for 
evaluation)  
 
c. Structure of the Committee and meetings:   
i. Whether the Committees have been structure properly and regular meetings 
are being held  
ii. In terms of discussions, agenda, etc. of the meetings, similar criteria may be 
laid down as specified above for the entire Board  
 
d. Independence of the Committee from the Board : Whether adequate 
independence of the Committee is ensured from the Board   
 
e. Contribution to decisions of the Board: Whether the Committee’s 
recommendations contribute effectively to decisions of the Board.  
 
C. Individual Directors and Chairperson (including Chairperson, CEO, Independent 
Directors, Non-independent directors, etc.) 
General 
a. Qualifications: Details of professional qualifications of the member  
b. Experience: Details of prior experience of the member, especially the experience 
relevant to the entity 
c. Knowledge and Competency: 
i. How the person fares across different competencies as identified for effective 
functioning of the entity and the Board (The entity may list various 
competencies and mark all directors against every such competency) 
ii. Whether the person has sufficient understanding and knowledge of the entity 
and the sector in which it operates 
d. Fulfillment of functions:  Whether the person understands and fulfills the 
functions to him/her as assigned by the Board and the law (E.g. Law imposes 
certain obligations on independent directors) 
e. Ability to function as a team : Whether t he person is able to function as an 
effective team- member 
f. Initiative: Whether the person actively takes initiative with respect to various 
areas 
g. Availability and attendance: Whether the person is available for meetings of the 
Board and attends the meeting regularly and timely, without delay.  
h. Commitment: Whether the person is adequately committed to the Board and the 
entity 
i. Contribution: Whether the person contributed effectively to the entity and in the

[Page 259]
Page 259 of 291 
 
Board meetings 
j. Integrity: Whether the person demonstrates highest level of integrity (including 
conflict of interest disclosures, maintenance of confidentiality, etc.) 
 
Additional criteria for Independent director:  
a. Independence: Whether person is independent from the entity and t he other 
directors and there if no conflict of interest  
b. Independent views and judgement: Whether the person exercises his/ her own 
judgement and voices opinion freely  
Additional criteria for Chairperson:  
a. Effectiveness of leadership and ability to steer the meetings: Whether the 
Chairperson displays efficient leadership, is open -minded, decisive, courteous, 
displays professionalism, able to coordinate the discussion, etc. and is overall 
able to steer the meeting effectively  
b. Impartiality: Whether the Chairperson is impartial in conducting discussions, 
seeking views and dealing with dissent, etc.  
c. Commitment: Whether the Chairperson is sufficiently committed to the Board and 
its meetings.  
d. Ability to keep shareholders’ interests in mind : Whether the Chairperson is 
able to keep shareholders’ interest in mind during discussions and decisions.  
Different criteria may be assigned different weights depending on the organisation’s 
requirements, circumstances, outcome of previous assessments, stag e of Board’s 
maturity, etc. Instead of the questionnaire in a simple yes/no format, it is desirable that it 
provides scope for grading, additional comments, suggestions, etc.   
 
3. Method of evaluation: 
As a global best practice, the method of evaluation is generally in 2 ways:  
a. Internal assessment  
b. Assessment by external experts  
 
 
Internal assessment: 
Internal assessment of the Board is crucial. Who should evaluate whom is provided in 
the Companies Act and SEBI LODR as specified above.  
 
The internal assessment may be done by following methods:  
a. A detailed Questionnaire to be circulated to individual directors, Committees, Board, 
etc.   
b. Oral assessments provided by the person on interviews  
 
If deemed fit, the questionnaire may enable writ ten answers to be submitted on a 
confidential basis. If due to various reasons, members are not willing to provide written 
inputs, the Chairperson or any other person may take initiative and obtain views of such 
members on a confidential basis.

[Page 260]
Page 260 of 291 
 
Assessment by external experts: 
Use of external experts imparts an independence to the evaluation process and therefore 
is used by many entities globally. However, care must be taken to ensure that the external 
assessor is not a related party or conflicted  due to closeness of the Board to ensure 
impartiality.   
 
Such external assessment may be done based on questionnaires/interviews or a 
combination of the two and done on a regular basis. Such external assessment 
complements the internal assessment and adds  an objective aspect to the evaluation 
process.   
 Effective use of Information Technology through use of board evaluation software, 
applications, etc. can also play a facilitating role.  
 
D. Feedback 
 
Providing feedback to the individual directors, the Board and the Committees is crucial for 
success of Board Evaluation. On collation of all the responses, the feedback may be provided 
in one or more of the following ways:  
a. Orally given by Chairman/ external assessor or any other suitable person to   
i. Each Member separately  
ii. To the entire Board   
iii. To the Committees  
b. A written assessment to every member, Board and Committee   
 
The active role of the Chairperson is desirable in providing feedback to the members . If 
members are not comfortable to open individual assessments, provision for confidentiality 
may be made where possible. For effectiveness of the evaluation, it is essential that the 
feedback be given honestly and without bias.    
E. Action Plan  
 
Based on the analysis of the responses, the Board may prepare an action plan on:  
• Areas of improvement including training, skill building, etc. as may be required for Board 
members    
• List of actions required detailing:  
o Nature of actions  
o Timeline  
o Person responsible for implementation   
o Resources required, etc.   
• Review of the actions within a specific time period   
 
The action plan may be prepared by the Board in a comprehensive manner. Suggestions 
under the external assessment, individual member feedback, etc. may be taken into account 
while drafting the action plan.

[Page 261]
Page 261 of 291 
 
F. Disclosure requirements  
 
The LODR Regulations and Companies Act requires disclosure of manner of formal annual 
evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors and  of performance 
evaluation criteria for independent directors to the shareholders on an annual basis.  
In addition, for more transparency, many entities worldwide voluntarily provide additional 
disclosures including the results of the Board evaluation, act ion taken on the basis of the 
evaluation, current status, etc. to various stakeholders.   
G. Frequency of Board Evaluation  
 
As per SEBI LODR and Companies Act, the Board Evaluation is required to be done once a 
year. The entity, if it so desires, may also co nduct such evaluation more frequently. Since 
Board evaluation is a continuous process, it is felt that feedback provided to the members 
during meetings and otherwise, whether oral or written, is more effective for continuous 
improvement and ideally complements the annual evaluation process.    
Many entities globally also complement the internal assessment with external assessment at 
regular intervals to impart objectivity to the process.    
H. Responsibility  
 
The responsibility of Board evaluation lies on different persons depending on the subject of 
evaluation as per Companies Act and SEBI LODR.   
However, it is found that on a global basis, generally the primary role of steering the whole 
process of Board eva luation and of ensuring its effectiveness in improving the Board 
efficiency lies on the Chairperson. Therefore, to achieve maximum benefit of the process, the 
role and function of Chairperson in Board Evaluation needs to be laid out clearly in advance.  
I. Review  
 
Board evaluation is not a static process and requires periodical review for improvement. The 
responsibility of such review of the evaluation process lies with the Board of Directors in 
accordance with SEBI LODR.   Such review may involve the following:  
a. Whether objectives and criteria for evaluation are adequate or needs to be changed/ 
updated  
b. Whether the process/method of evaluation is appropriate for individual members, 
Committees and the Board   
c. Whether the actions based on the Board evaluation is being followed up on a timely basis   
d. Whether the Board evaluation has enhanced effectiveness of the Board  
e. Whether the review of the process is being done on a regular basis   
f. Whether feedback of the members to improve the process is being taken into account  
Such review may be done based on feedback from management, Board members, 
Chairperson, external assessors, various stakeholders, etc.   
*****

[Page 262]
Page 262 of 291 
 
ANNEXURE 24 
 
FORMAT FOR DISCLOSURE OF COMMODITY RISKS BY LISTED ENTITIES 
 
1. Risk management policy of the listed entity with respect to commodities including through 
hedging (Such policy shall take into account total exposure of the entity towards 
commodities, commodity risks faced by the entity, hedged exposures, etc. as specified 
below) 
 
2. Exposure of the listed entity to commodity and commodity risks faced by the entity 
throughout the year: 
a. Total exposure of the listed entity to commodities in INR 
b. Exposure of the listed entity to various commodities: 
 
Commodity 
Name 
Exposure 
in INR 
towards 
the 
particular 
commodity 
Exposure 
in Quantity 
terms 
towards 
the 
particular 
commodity 
% of such exposure hedged through commodity 
derivatives 
Domestic 
market 
International market Total 
 
OTC 
 
Exchange 
 
OTC 
 
Exchange 
        
        
 
c. Commodity risks faced by the listed entity during the year and how they have been 
managed. 
 
Note: 
(i) The disclosure pertaining to exposure & commodity risks may apply only for those 
commodities where the exposure of the listed entity in the particular commodity is 
material. (Materiality in such cases shall be according to the materiality policy 
approved by the board of Directors of the listed entity in this context) 
(ii) If the listed entity has exposure in non-rupee terms, the Indian rupee equivalent after 
conversion shall be used for the aforesaid disclosures. 
(iii) The term ‘exposure’ shall mean gross exposure of the listed entity including exposure 
both on the asset and liability side. 
(iv) Where exact figures are not determinable, ballpark (estimated) figures may be 
provided. 
****

[Page 263]
Page 263 of 291 
 
 
176[ANNEXURE 25 
 
FORMAT FOR QUARTERLY INTEGRATED FILING (GOVERNANCE) 
A. Compliance Report on Corporate Governance to be submitted by a listed entity on a quarterly basis 
1. Name of the Listed Entity: 
2. Quarter ending: 
 
I. Composition of Board of Directors 
Title 
(Mr 
. / 
Ms) 
Name of 
the 
Director 
PAN$ 
& DIN 
Category 
(Chairperson 
/Executive/Non- 
Executive/in 
dependent/  
Nominee) & 
Initial Date 
of 
Appointment 
 
Date of Re-
appointment 
Date of 
Cessation 
Tenure* Date of 
Birth 
No. of 
directorship 
in listed 
entities 
including 
this listed 
entity 
 
[with 
reference to 
Regulation 
17A] 
No. of 
Independent 
Directorship 
in listed 
entities 
including 
this listed 
entity 
 
[with  
reference to 
proviso to 
regulation 
17A(1)] & 
reg. 17A(2)] 
No. of 
memberships 
in Audit/ 
Stakeholder 
Committee(s) 
including this 
listed entity 
 
(Refer 
Regulation 
26(1) of the 
LODR 
Regulations) 
No. of post of 
Chairperson in 
Audit/ 
Stakeholder 
Committee 
held in listed 
entities 
including this 
listed entity 
 
(Refer 
Regulation 
26(1) of the 
LODR 
Regulations) 
             
                                                           
176 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024, which is incorporated in Section VI-L of this Master Circular (The format is applicable 
for the filings to be done for the quarter ending 31st December 2024 and thereafter)

[Page 264]
Page 264 of 291 
 
  Whether Regular chairperson appointed 
  Whether Chairperson is related to managing director or CEO 
  $PAN number of any director would not be displayed on the website of Stock Exchange  
&Category of directors means executive/non-executive/independent/Nominee. If a director fits into more than one category write all categories 
separating them with hyphen 
* to be filled only for Independent Director. Tenure would mean total period from which Independent director is serving on Boar d of directors of 
the listed entity in continuity without any cooling off period. 
 
II. Composition of Committees 
Name of Committee Whether Regular 
chairperson appointed 
Name of 
Committee 
members 
Category 
(Chairperson/Executive/Non- 
Executive/independent/ 
Nominee) & 
Date of 
Appointment 
Date of 
Cessation 
1. Audit Committee      
2. Nomination & Remuneration Committee      
3. Risk Management Committee (if 
applicable) 
     
4. Stakeholders Relationship Committee      
&Category of directors means executive/non-executive/independent/Nominee. if a director fits into more than one category write all categories separating 
them with hyphen 
 
III. Meeting of Board of Directors 
Date(s) of Meeting in 
the relevant quarter 
Whether 
requirement of 
Quorum met* 
Number of 
Directors 
present* 
Number of 
independent 
directors present* 
 
Date(s) of Meeting in 
the previous quarter 
Maximum gap between any two 
consecutive meetings (in number of days) 
 Yes / No     
* to be filled in only for the current quarter meetings

[Page 265]
Page 265 of 291 
 
 
IV. Meeting of Committees 
Name of the 
Committee 
Date(s) of 
meeting of the 
committee in 
the relevant 
quarter 
Whether 
requirement of 
Quorum met 
(details)* 
Number of 
Directors 
present* 
Number of 
independent 
directors present* 
 
Date(s) of 
meeting of the 
committee in 
the previous 
quarter 
Maximum gap 
between any two 
consecutive meetings 
in number of days** 
  Yes / No     
* to be filled in only for the current quarter meetings 
** This information has to be mandatorily be given for audit committee and Risk Management Committee, for rest of the committees  giving this information is 
optional 
 
V. Affirmations 
1. The composition of Board of Directors is in terms of SEBI (Listing obligations and disclosure requirements) Regulations, 2015.  
2. The composition of the following committees is in terms of SEBI (Listing obligations and  disclosure requirements) Regulations, 2015 
a. Audit Committee 
b. Nomination & remuneration committee 
c. Stakeholders relationship committee 
d. Risk management committee (applicable to the top 1000 listed entities, voluntary for entities ranked 1001 to 2000) 
3. The committee members have been made aware of their powers, role and  responsibilities as specified in SEBI (Listing obligations and disclosure 
requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
4. The meetings of the board of directors and the above committees have been conducted in the manner as specified in SEBI (Listi ng obligations and 
disclosure requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
5. This report and/or the report submitted in the previous quarter has been placed before Board of Directors. Any comments/obser vations/advice of Board 
of Directors may be mentioned here: 
 
 
 
Note: 
Information at Table I and II above need to be necessarily given in 1st quarter of each financial year. However, if there is no change of information in subsequent 
quarter(s) of that financial year, this information may not be given by the listed entity and instead a statement “same as previous quar ter” may be given. 
 
 Name & Designation 
 
 Company Secretary / Compliance Officer / Managing Director / CEO / CFO

[Page 266]
Page 266 of 291 
 
 
B. INVESTOR GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL REPORT 
 
Investor Grievance Redressal Report 
No. of investor complaints pending at the beginning of Quarter   
No. of investor complaints received during the Quarter   
No. of investor complaints disposed off during the Quarter   
No. of investor complaints those remaining unresolved at the end 
of the Quarter   
 
C. DISCLOSURE OF ACQUISITION OF SHARES OR VOTING RIGHTS IN UNLISTED COMPANIES 
 
The details of acquisition of shares or voting rights in unlisted companies during the quarter in terms of sub-para 1 of para A of Part A of Schedule 
III are given below: 
 
S. 
No. 
Name of the unlisted 
company in which shares 
or voting rights have 
been acquired 
Date of 
acquisition 
Aggregate holding (% 
shares or voting rights) as 
at the end of the previous 
quarter 
% shares or voting 
rights acquired 
during the quarter 
Aggregate holding (% 
shares or voting rights) 
as at the end of the 
quarter

[Page 267]
Page 267 of 291 
 
 
D. DISCLOSURE OF IMPOSITION OF FINE OR PENALTY 
 
The details of imposition of fine or penalty during the quarter in terms of sub-para 20 of para A of Part A of Schedule III are given below: 
 
S. 
No. 
Name of 
the 
authority 
Nature and details 
of the action(s) 
taken or order(s) 
passed 
Date of receipt of direction or 
order, including any ad-interim 
or interim orders, or any other 
communication from the 
authority 
Details of the 
violation(s)/ 
contravention(s) 
committed or alleged to 
be committed 
Impact on financial, 
operation or other activities 
of the listed entity, 
quantifiable in monetary 
terms to the extent possible 
      
 
E. DISCLOSURE OF UPDATES TO ONGOING TAX LITIGATIONS OR DISPUTES 
 
The updates on tax litigations or disputes in terms of sub-para 8 of para B of Part A of Schedule III read with corresponding provisions of Annexure 
18 of the Master Circular are given below: 
 
S. 
No. 
Name of the 
opposing party 
Date of initiation of the 
litigation / dispute 
Status of the litigation / dispute as 
per last disclosure 
Current status of the 
litigation / dispute

[Page 268]
Page 268 of 291 
 
F. DISCLOSURE OF LOANS / GUARANTEES / COMFORT LETTERS / SECURITIES ETC. (applicable only for half-yearly filings i.e., 
2nd and 4th quarter) 
HALF YEAR ENDING - ………………  
I. Disclosure of Loans / guarantees / comfort letters / securities etc. refer note below 
 
(A) Any loan or any other form of debt advanced by the listed entity directly or indirectly to:  
 
Entity Aggregate amount advanced during six months  Balance outstanding at the end of six months 
Promoter or any other entity controlled by 
them 
  
Promoter Group or any other entity 
controlled by them 
  
Directors (including relatives) or any other 
entity controlled by them 
  
KMPs or any other entity controlled by 
them 
  
  
(B) Any guarantee/ comfort letter (by whatever name called) provided by the listed entity directly or indirectly, in connection w ith any loan(s) or any other 
form of debt availed by: 
 
Entity Type (guarantee, comfort letter etc.) Aggregate amount of issuance during 
six months  
Balance outstanding at the end of 
six months (taking into account 
any invocation) 
Promoter or any other entity 
controlled by them 
   
Promoter Group or any other 
entity controlled by them 
   
Directors (including 
relatives) or any other entity 
controlled by them 
   
KMPs or any other entity 
controlled by them 
   
 
(C) Any security provided by the listed entity directly or indirectly, in connection with any loan(s) or any other form of debt availed by: 
 
Entity Type of security (cash, 
shares etc.) 
Aggregate value of security provided 
during six months  
Balance outstanding at the end of six 
months

[Page 269]
Page 269 of 291 
 
Promoter or any other entity 
controlled by them 
   
Promoter Group or any other 
entity controlled by them 
   
Directors (including relatives) 
or any other entity controlled by 
them 
   
KMPs or any other entity 
controlled by them 
   
 
II. Affirmations: 
All loans (or other form of debt), guarantees, comfort letters (by whatever name called) or securities in connection with any loan(s) (or other form of debt) 
given directly or indirectly by the listed entity to promoter(s), promoter group, director(s) (including their relatives), key managerial personnel (including their 
relatives) or any entity controlled by them are in the economic interest of the company.  
  Name & Designation 
CEO / CFO 
Note 
1. These disclosures shall exclude any loan (or other form of debt), guarantee / comfort letter (by whatever name called) or security provided  in 
connection with any loan or any other form of debt; 
b) by a government company to/ for the Government or government company   
c) by the listed entity to/for its subsidiary [and joint-venture company] whose accounts are consolidated with the listed entity.  
d) by a banking company or an insurance company; and 
e) by the listed entity to its employees or directors as a part of the service conditions  
 
2. If the Listed Entity would like to provide any other information, the same may be indicated as Para D in the above table.

[Page 270]
Page 270 of 291 
 
G. AFFIRMATIONS ON COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR AGM (applicable only for the first half-year filing i.e., 2nd 
quarter) 
I Affirmations  
 Regulation Number Compliance status 
(Yes/No/NA)refer note below 
Copy of the annual report including balance sheet, profit and loss account, directors report, 
corporate governance report, BRSR & BRSR core, if applicable, displayed on website  
46(2)  
Presence of Chairperson of Audit Committee at the Annual General Meeting  18(1)(d)  
Presence of Chairperson of the nomination and remuneration committee at the annual general 
meeting 
19(3)  
Presence of Chairperson of the Stakeholder Relationship committee at the annual general 
meeting 
20(3)  
Disclosure of the Secretarial Audit Report of the listed entity and the material subsidiaries in the 
Annual Report 
24A(1)  
Compliance with the conditions laid down for Secretarial Auditor or the person signing the 
Secretarial Compliance Report 
24A(1A), 24A(1B), 
24A(1C) 
 
Submission of Annual Secretarial Compliance Report 24A(2)  
Whether “Corporate Governance Report” disclosed in Annual Report  34(3) read with para C 
of Schedule V 
 
Note 
1 In the column “Compliance Status”, compliance or non -compliance may be indicated by Yes/No/N.A. For example, if the Board has been composed in 
accordance with the requirements of LODR Regulations, "Yes" may be indicated.  
2 If status is “No” details of non-compliance may be given here. 
3 If the Listed Entity would like to provide any other information the same may be indicated  here. 
Name & Designation 
 
Company Secretary / Compliance Officer / Managing Director / CEO / CFO

[Page 271]
Page 271 of 291 
 
H. WEBSITE AFFIRMATIONS (applicable only for Annual Filing i.e., 4th quarter) 
 
I. Disclosure on website in terms of LODR Regulations  
Item Compliance status 
(Yes/No/NA)refer note below 
If Yes provide link to 
website. If No / NA provide 
reasons 
     As per regulation 46(2) of the LODR:   
a) Details of business   
 aa) Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association   
 ab) Brief profile of board of directors including directorship and full -time positions in body 
corporates 
  
b) Terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors   
c) Composition of various committees of board of directors   
d) Code of conduct of board of directors and senior management personnel   
e) Details of establishment of vigil mechanism/ Whistle Blower policy   
f) Criteria of making payments to non-executive directors   
g) Policy on dealing with related party transactions   
h) Policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries   
i) Details of familiarization programmes imparted to independent directors   
j) email address for grievance redressal and other relevant details   
k) Contact information of the designated officials of the listed entity who are responsible for 
assisting and handling investor grievances 
  
l) Financial results   
m) Shareholding pattern   
n) Details of agreements entered into with the media companies and/or their associates  
 
 
  
o) (i) Schedule of analyst or institutional investor meet  
 
(ii) Presentations prepared by the listed entity for analysts or institutional investors meet, 
post earnings or quarterly calls prior to beginning of such events. 
 
 
  
 oa) Audio recordings, video recordings, if any, and transcripts of post earnings or quarterly calls, 
by whatever name called, conducted physically or through digital means 
  
p) New name and the old name of the listed entity

[Page 272]
Page 272 of 291 
 
q) Advertisements as per regulation 47(1)   
r) Credit rating or revision in credit rating obtained   
s) Separate audited financial statements of each subsidiary of the listed entity in respect of a 
relevant financial year 
  
t) Secretarial Compliance Report   
u) Materiality Policy as per Regulation 30(4)   
v) Disclosure of contact details of KMP who are authorized for the purpose of determining 
materiality as required under regulation 30(5) 
  
w) Disclosures under regulation 30(8)   
x) Statements of deviation(s) or variations(s) as specified in regulation 32   
y) Dividend distribution policy as specified in regulation 43A(1)   
z) Annual return as provided under section 92 of the Companies Act, 2013   
  za) Employee Benefit scheme documents framed in terms of SEBI (SBEB) Regulations, 2021    
   
 Confirmation that the above disclosures are in a separate section as specified in 
regulation 46(2) 
  
 Compliance with regulation 46(3) with respect to accuracy of disclosures on the website 
and timely updation 
  
 
 
I. AFFIRMATIONS W.R.T. COMPLIANCE WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PROVISIONS (applicable only for Annual Filing i.e., 
4th quarter) 
 
II Annual Affirmations 
Particulars Regulation Number Compliance status 
(Yes/No/NA)refer note below 
Independent director(s) have been appointed in terms of specified 
criteria of 
‘independence’ and/or ‘eligibility’ 
16(1)(b)   
Board composition 17(1), 17(1A),  17(1C), 17(1D) & 
17(1E) 
 
Meeting of Board of directors 17(2)    
Quorum of Board meeting 17(2A)  
Review of Compliance Reports 17(3)  
Plans for orderly succession for Appointments 17(4)  
Code of Conduct 17(5)  
Fees/compensation 17(6)

[Page 273]
Page 273 of 291 
 
Minimum Information 17(7)  
Compliance Certificate 17(8)  
Risk Assessment & Management 17(9)  
Performance Evaluation of Independent Directors 17(10)  
Recommendation of Board 17(11)  
Maximum number of directorships 17A  
Composition of Audit Committee 18(1)  
Meeting of Audit Committee 18(2)  
Role of Audit Committee and information to be reviewed by the audit 
committee  
18(3)  
Composition of nomination & remuneration committee 19(1) & (2)  
Quorum of Nomination and Remuneration Committee meeting 19(2A)  
Meeting of nomination & remuneration committee 19(3A)  
Role of Nomination and Remuneration Committee 19(4)  
Composition of Stakeholder Relationship Committee 20(1),  20(2)and 20(2A)  
Meeting of stakeholder relationship committee 20 (3A)  
Role of Stakeholders Relationship Committee 20(4)  
Composition and role of risk management committee 21(1),(2),(3),(4)  
Meeting of Risk Management Committee 21(3A)  
Quorum of Risk Management Committee meeting 21(3B)  
Gap between the meetings of the Risk Management Committee 21(3C)  
Vigil Mechanism 22  
Policy for related party Transaction 23(1), (1A), (5) ,(6),& (8)  
Prior or Omnibus approval of Audit Committee for all related party 
transactions 
23(2), (3)  
Approval for material related party transactions 23(4)  
Disclosure of related party transactions on consolidated basis 23(9)  
Composition of Board of Directors of unlisted material Subsidiary 24(1)  
Other Corporate Governance requirements with respect to subsidiary of 
listed entity 
24(2),(3),(4),(5) & (6)  
Alternate Director to Independent Director 25(1)  
Maximum Tenure 25(2)  
Appointment, Re -appointment or removal of an Independent Director 
through special resolution or the alternate mechanism 
25(2A)  
Meeting of independent directors 25(3) & (4)  
Familiarization of independent directors 25(7)  
Declaration from Independent Director 25(8) & (9)  
Directors and Officers insurance 25(10)

[Page 274]
Page 274 of 291 
 
Confirmation with respect to appointment of Independent Directors who 
resigned from the listed entity 
25(11)  
Memberships in Committees 26(1)  
Affirmation with compliance to code of conduct from members of Board 
of Directors and Senior management Personnel 
26(3)  
Policy with respect to Obligations of directors and senior management 26(2) & 26(5)  
Approval of the Board and shareholders for compensation or profit 
sharing in connection with dealings in the securities of the listed entity. 
26(6)  
Vacancies in respect Key Managerial Personnel 26A(1) & 26A(2), 26A(3)  
Note 
1. In the column “Compliance Status”, compliance or non -compliance may be indicated by Yes/No/N.A. For example, if the Board has been composed in 
accordance with the requirements of LODR Regulations, "Yes" may be indicated. Similarly, in case the Listed Entity has no rel ated party transactions, 
the words “N.A.” may be indicated. 
2. If status is “No” details of non-compliance may be given here. 
3. If the Listed Entity would like to provide any other information the same may be indicated here.  
 
III Affirmations: 
The Listed Entity has approved the Material Subsidiary Policy and the Corporate Governance requirements with respect to the subsidiary of Liste d Entity 
have been complied. 
Name & Designation 
Company Secretary / Compliance Officer / Managing Director / CEO / CFO

[Page 275]
Page 275 of 291 
 
FORMAT FOR QUARTERLY INTEGRATED FILING (FINANCIAL) 
A. FINANCIAL RESULTS 
 
Formats for unaudited / audited quarterly financial results i.e., Statement of Profit and Loss and the unaudited / audited half-yearly balance sheet 
to be submitted by listed entities shall be as per the formats for balance sheet and statement of profit and loss (excluding notes and detailed sub-
classification) as prescribed in Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, as amended from time to time. Listed banking and insurance companies 
shall follow the formats as prescribed under the respective Acts / Regulations and / or as specified by the sectoral regulators. While  publishing 
the quarterly financial results, listed entities shall also publish the figures relating to the periods as mentioned in  para 5 of section III-A of SEBI 
Master Circular dated November 11, 2024. 
B. STATEMENT ON DEVIATION OR VARIATION FOR PROCEEDS OF PUBLIC ISSUE, RIGHTS ISSUE, PREFERENTIAL ISSUE, 
QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT ETC. 
 
Statement on deviation / variation in utilisation of funds raised  
Name of listed entity                  
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
Mode of Fund Raising   Public Issues / Rights  
Issues / Preferential 
Issues / QIP / Others   
Date of Raising Funds      
Amount Raised      
Report filed for Quarter ended     
Monitoring Agency  applicable / not 
applicable  
Monitoring Agency Name, if applicable     
Is there a Deviation / Variation in use of funds 
raised  
Yes / No  
If yes, whether the same is pursuant to  change 
in terms of a contract or objects, which was 
approved by the shareholders     
If Yes, Date of shareholder Approval

[Page 276]
Page 276 of 291 
 
Explanation for the Deviation / Variation                  
Comments of the Audit Committee after review     
Comments of the auditors, if any 
  
   
Objects for which funds have been raised and 
where there has been a deviation, in the 
following table  
   
Original Object   Modified Object, if any  Original 
Allocation  
Modified 
allocation, 
if any  
Funds  
Utilised   
Amount of  
Deviation/Variation 
for the quarter 
according to 
applicable object  
Remarks if 
any  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
                     
Deviation or variation could mean:              
(a) Deviation in the objects or purposes for which the funds have been raised or            
(b) Deviation in the amount of funds actually utilized as against what was originally disclosed or        
(c) Change in terms of a contract referred to in the fund raising document i.e. prospectus, letter of offer, etc.       
               
Name of Signatory               
Designation

[Page 277]
Page 277 of 291 
 
C. FORMAT FOR DISCLOSING OUTSTANDING DEFAULT ON LOANS AND DEBT SECURITIES 
 
S. No. Particulars in INR crore 
1. Loans / revolving facilities like cash credit from banks / financial institutions 
A Total amount outstanding as on date  
B Of the total amount outstanding, amount of default as on date  
2. Unlisted debt securities i.e. NCDs and NCRPS 
A Total amount outstanding as on date  
B Of the total amount outstanding, amount of default as on date  
3. Total financial indebtedness of the listed entity including short-term 
and long-term debt

[Page 278]
Page 278 of 291 
 
 D. FORMAT FOR DISCLOSURE OF RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (applicable only for half-yearly filings i.e., 2nd and 
4th quarter)  
 
 
Additional disclosure of related party transactions - applicable only in case the 
related party transaction relates to loans, inter -corporate deposits, advances 
or investments made or  given by the listed entity/subsidiary. These details 
need to be disclosed only once, during the reporting period when such 
transaction was undertaken. 
S. 
No 
  
Details of the 
party (listed 
entity 
/subsidiary) 
entering into 
the 
transaction 
Details of the counterparty 
Type of 
related 
party 
transaction 
(see Note 
5) 
  
Value of 
the related 
party 
transaction 
as 
approved 
by the 
audit 
committee 
(see Note 
6a) 
  
Value of 
the related 
party 
transaction 
ratified by 
the audit 
committee 
(see Note 
6b) 
Value of 
transaction 
during the 
reporting 
period 
(see Note 
6c) 
  
In case monies 
are due to 
either party as 
a result of the 
transaction 
(see Note 1) 
In case any financial 
indebtedness is incurred 
to make or give loans, 
inter-corporate deposits, 
advances or investments 
Details of the loans, inter-corporate deposits, 
advances or investments 
Name PAN Name PAN 
Relationship 
of the 
counterparty 
with the listed 
entity or its 
subsidiary 
  
 
 Opening 
balance 
Closing 
balance 
Nature of 
indebtedness 
(loan/ issuance 
of debt/ any 
other etc.) 
Cost 
  
(see 
Note 
7) 
Tenure 
Nature 
(loan/ 
advance/ 
inter-
corporate 
deposit/ 
investment 
Interest 
Rate (%) Tenure Secured/ 
unsecured 
Purpose 
for 
which 
the 
funds 
will be 
utilised 
by the 
ultimate 
recipient 
of funds 
(end-
usage) 
                                       
  
Tota
l (of 
Note 
6b)

[Page 279]
Page 279 of 291 
 
Notes: 
1.  The details in this format are required to be provided for all transactions undertaken during the reporting period. However, opening and closing balances, 
including commitments, to be disclosed for existing related party transactions even if there is no new related party transaction during the reporting 
period. 
 
2.  Where a transaction is undertaken between members of the consolidated entity (between the listed entity and its subsidiary or  between subsidiaries), 
it may be reported once. 
 
3.  Listed banks shall not be required to provide the disclosures with respect to related party transactions involving loans, int er-corporate deposits, 
advances or investments made or given by the listed banks.  
 
4.  For companies with financial year ending March 31, this information has to be provided for six months ended September 30 and six months ended 
March 31. Companies with financial years ending in other months, the six months period shall apply accordingly.  
 
5.  Each type of related party transaction (for e.g. sale of goods/services, purchase of goods/services or whether it involves a loan, inter-corporate deposit, 
advance or investment) with a single party shall be disclosed separately and there should be no clu bbing or netting of transactions of same type. 
However, transactions with the same counterparty of the same type may be aggregated for the reporting period. For instance, s ale transactions with 
the same party may be aggregated for the reporting period and purchase transactions may also be disclosed in a similar manner. There should be no 
netting off for sale and purchase transactions. Similarly, loans advanced to and received from the same counterparty should b e disclosed separately, 
without any netting off. 
 
6.  In case of a multi-year related party transaction: 
a. The aggregate value of such related party transaction as approved by the audit committee shall be disclosed in the column “Va lue of the 
related party transaction as approved by the audit committee”. 
b. The value of the related party transaction ratified by the audit committee shall be disclosed in the column “Value of the rel ated party 
transaction ratified by the audit committee”. 
c. The value of the related party transaction undertaken in the reporting per iod shall be reported in the column “Value of related party 
transaction during the reporting period”.  
 
7.  "Cost" refers to the cost of borrowed funds for the listed entity. 
 
8.  PAN will not be displayed on the website of the Stock Exchange(s). 
 
9.  Transactions such as acceptance of fixed deposits by banks/NBFCs, undertaken with related parties, at the terms uniformly app licable /offered to all 
shareholders/ public shall also be reported.

[Page 280]
Page 280 of 291 
 
 
E. STATEMENT ON IMPACT OF AUDIT QUALIFICATIONS (FOR AUDIT REPORT WITH MODIFIED OPINION) SUBMITTED ALONG-
WITH ANNUAL AUDITED FINANCIAL RESULTS (Standalone and Consolidated separately) (applicable only for Annual Filing 
i.e., 4th quarter) 
 
 
Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications for the Financial Year ended March 31, ........  
(See regulation 33 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015) 
  
I.  
  
  
Sl.  
No.  
Particulars  
Audited Figures  
(as reported before 
adjusting for qualifications)  
Adjusted Figures  
(audited figures after 
adjusting for 
qualifications)  
1.  Turnover / Total income  -  -  
2.  Total Expenditure   -  -  
3.  Net Profit/(Loss)  -  -  
4.  Earnings Per Share  -  -  
   5.  Total Assets  -  -  
   6.  Total Liabilities  -  -  
   7.  Net Worth  -  -  
   8. Any other financial item(s) (as felt appropriate by the 
management)  
-  -

[Page 281]
Page 281 of 291 
 
II. 
   
   
   
   
Audit Qualification (each audit qualification separately):  
a. Details of Audit Qualification:   
b. Type of Audit Qualification: Qualified Opinion / Disclaimer of Opinion / Adverse Opinion  
c. Frequency of qualification: Whether appeared first time / repetitive / since how long continuing  
d. For Audit Qualification(s) where the impact is quantified by the auditor, Management's Views:  
e. For Audit Qualification(s) where the impact is not quantified by the auditor:   
(i) Management's estimation on the impact of audit qualification:   
(ii) If management is unable to estimate the impact, reasons for the same:  
(iii) Auditors' Comments on (i) or (ii) above:  
III.  Signatories:  
• CEO/Managing Director 
• CFO 
• Audit Committee Chairman 
• Statutory Auditor 
Place:  
Date:    
*****]

[Page 282]
Page 282 of 291 
 
177[ANNEXURE 26 
DISQUALIFICATIONS FOR A SECRETARIAL AUDITOR  
1. For the purpose of Regulation 24A(1A) of the LODR Regulations, the following persons 
shall not be eligible to be appointed / continue as a Secretarial Auditor of the listed entity, 
namely: — 
a) a body corporate other than a limited liability partnership registered under the 
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008; 
b) an officer or employee of the listed entity; 
c) a person who is a partner, or who is in the employment, of an officer or employee 
of the listed entity; 
d) a person who, or his relative or partner— 
i. is holding security of or interest in the listed entity or its subsidiary, or of its 
holding or associate entity or a subsidiary of such holding entity to which 
the listed entity is also a subsidiary, of face value exceeding one lakh 
rupees; 
ii. is indebted to the listed entity, or its subsidiary, or its holding or a ssociate 
entity or a subsidiary of such holding entity to which the listed entity is also 
a subsidiary, in excess of five lakh rupees; or 
iii. has given a guarantee or provided any security in connection with the 
indebtedness of any third person to the listed entity, or its subsidiary, or its 
holding or associate entity or a subsidiary of such holding entity to which 
the listed entity is also a subsidiary, in excess of one lakh rupees; 
e) a person or a firm who, whether directly or indirectly, has business relationship with 
the listed entity, or its subsidiary, or its holding or associate entity or subsidiary of 
such holding entity; 
 
Explanation I — For the purposes of this clause, the term “business relationship” 
shall be construed as any transaction entered into f or a commercial purpose, 
except - 
i. commercial transactions which are in the nature of professional services 
permitted to be rendered by a secretarial auditor or secretarial audit firm 
under the Companies Act, 2013, Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992, Companies Secretaries Act, 1980, and the rules or the regulations 
made under those Acts; 
ii. commercial transactions which are in the ordinary course of business of the 
company at arm’s length price - like sale of products or services to the 
secretarial auditor, as customer, in the ordinary course of business, by 
companies engaged in the business of telecommunications, airlines, 
hospitals, hotels and such other similar businesses. 
 
Explanation II — For the purpose of this clause, the term “directly or indirectly” shall 
mean, — 
i. in case of an individual, either himself or through his relative or any other 
person connected or associated with such individual or through any other 
                                                           
177 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024.

[Page 283]
Page 283 of 291 
 
entity, whatsoever, in which such individual has significant influence or 
control, or whose name or trade mark or brand is used by such individual; 
ii. in case of a firm, either itself or through any of its partners or through its 
parent, subsidiary or associate entity or through any other entity, 
whatsoever, in which the firm or any part ner of the firm has significant 
influence or control, or whose name or trade mark or brand is used by the 
firm or any of its partners.  
 
f) a person whose relative is a director or is in the employment of the listed entity as 
a director or key managerial personnel; 
 
g) a person who is in full time employment elsewhere or a person or a partner of a 
firm holding appointment as its secretarial auditor, if such persons or partner is at 
the date of such appointment or reappointment holding appointment as secretarial 
auditor of 15 or more than 15 companies; 
 
h) a person who has been convicted by a court of an offence involving fraud and a 
period of ten years has not elapsed from the date of such conviction; 
 
i) a person who, directly or indirectly, renders any service prohib ited under sub -
regulation (1B) of regulation 24A to the listed entity or its holding or its subsidiary 
entities.] 
*****

[Page 284]
Page 284 of 291 
 
 
178[Annexure 27 
 
SERVICES NOT TO BE RENDERED BY THE SECRETARIAL AUDITOR 
 
1. For the purpose of Regulation 24A(1B) of the LODR Regulations, a secretarial auditor 
appointed under the LODR regulations, shall not provide any of the following services 
(whether such services are rendered directly or indirectly) to the listed entity, or its holding 
entity or subsidiary entity, namely:  
i. internal audit; 
ii. design and implementation of any compliance management system, 
information system, policy framework, systems or processes for 
compliance; 
iii. investment advisory services; 
iv. investment banking services; 
v. rendering of outsourced compliance management, record keeping & 
maintenance services;   
vi. management services; and 
vii. any other kind of services as may be specified from time to time.  
 
Explanation:- The term “directly or indirectly” shall include rendering of services by the 
secretarial auditor, — 
iii. in case of secretarial auditor being an individual, either himself or through 
his relative or any other person connected or associated with such 
individual or through any other entity, whatsoever, in which such individual 
has significant influence or control, or whose name or trade mark or brand 
is used by such individual; 
iv. in case of secretarial auditor being a firm, either itself or through any of its 
partners or through its parent, subsidiary or associate entity or through any 
other entity, whatsoever, in which the firm or any partner of the firm has 
significant influence or control, or whose name or trade mark or brand is 
used by the firm or any of its partners.] 
 
***** 
  
                                                           
178 Inserted with the issuance of Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 dated December 31, 2024.

[Page 285]
Page 285 of 291 
 
APPENDIX 
 
LIST OF CIRCULARS RELATING TO THE OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE 
REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE LODR REGULATIONS 
Sl. 
No
. 
Circular Number Subject Date 
1.  CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 
Continuous Disclosure Requirements for Listed 
Entities - Regulation 30  of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 
September 09, 
2015 
2.  CIR/CFD/CMD/5/2015 
Format for compliance report on Corporate 
Governance to be submitted to Stock 
Exchange(s) by Listed Entities 
September 24, 
2015 
3.  CIR/CFD/CMD/6/2015 Format of uniform Listing Agreement October 13, 
2015 
4.  CIR/CFD/CMD/8/2015 Format for Voting Results November 04, 
2015 
5.  CIR/CFD/CMD/9/2015 
Format for quarterly holding pattern, disclosure 
norms for corporate governance report and 
manner for compliance with two -way fungibility 
of Indian Depository Receipts (IDRs) 
November 04, 
2015 
6.  CIR/CFD/CMD/10/2015 Format for Business Responsibility Report November 04, 
2015 
7.  CIR/CFD/CMD/12/2015 
Non-compliance with certain provisions of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Standard 
Operating Procedure for suspension and 
revocation of trading of specified securities 
November 30, 
2015 
8.  CIR/CFD/CMD/13/2015 
Disclosure of holding of specified securities and 
Holding of specified securities in dematerialized 
form 
November 30, 
2015 
9.  CIR/CFD/CMD/14/2015 Manner of achieving Minimum Public 
Shareholding 
November 30, 
2015 
10.  CIR/CFD/CMD/15/2015 Formats for publishing financial results November 30, 
2015 
11.  CIR/CFD/CMD/16/2015 
Schemes of Arrangement by Listed Entities and 
(ii) Relaxation under Sub -rule (7) of rule 19 of 
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 
1957 
November 30, 
2015 
12.  CIR/CFD/CMD/56/2016 Disclosure of the Impact of Audit Qualifications 
by the Listed Entities May 27, 2016

[Page 286]
Page 286 of 291 
 
Sl. 
No
. 
Circular Number Subject Date 
13.  CIR/CFD/FAC/62/2016 Revised Formats for Financial Results and 
Implementation of Ind-AS by Listed Entities July 05, 2016 
14.  CIR/CFD/DIL/115/2016 Disclosures in case of listed insurance 
companies 
October 24, 
2016 
15.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CIR/P/20
16/116 
Freezing of Promoter and Promoter group 
Demat accounts for Non -compliance with 
certain provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 
October 26, 
2016 
16.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CI
R/P/2017/004 Guidance Note on Board Evaluation January 05, 
2017 
17.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CI
R/P/2017/10 Integrated Reporting by Listed Entities February 6, 
2017 
18.  CIR/CFD/CMD/80/2017 Disclosure of divergence in the asset 
classification and provisioning by banks July 18, 2017 
19.  CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/
115 
Non – compliance with the Minimum Public 
Shareholding (MPS) requirements 
October 10, 
2017 
20.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CI
R/P/2017/128 
Disclosure of holding of specified securities and 
Holding of specified securities in dematerialized 
form 
December 19, 
2017 
21.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CI
R/P/43/2018 
Manner of achieving Minimum Public 
Shareholding 
February 22, 
2018 
22.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CI
R/P/2018/77 
Non-compliance with certain provisions of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the 
Standard Operating Procedure for suspension 
and revocation of trading of specified securities 
May 3, 2018 
23.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CI
R/P/2018/79 
Circular for implementation of certain 
recommendations of the Committee on 
Corporate Governance under the Chairmanship 
of Shri Uday Kotak 
May 10, 2018 
24.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2018/141 
Disclosures regarding commodity risks by listed 
entities 
November 15, 
2018 
25.  CIR/CFD/CMD-
1/142/2018 
Disclosure of reasons for delay in submission of 
financial results by listed entities 
November 19, 
2018 
26.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2018/0000000149 
Disclosure of significant beneficial ownership in 
the shareholding pattern 
December 7, 
2018 
27.  CIR/CFD/CMD1/27/201
9 
Format for annual secretarial audit report and 
annual secretarial compliance report for listed 
entities and their material subsidiaries 
February 08, 
2019

[Page 287]
Page 287 of 291 
 
Sl. 
No
. 
Circular Number Subject Date 
28.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2019/36 
Modification of circular dated December 7, 2018 
on ‘Disclosure of significant beneficial 
ownership in the shareholding pattern’ 
March 12, 2019 
29.  CIR/CFD/CMD1/44/201
9 
Procedure and formats for limited review / audit 
report of the listed entity and those entities 
whose accounts are to be consolidated with the 
listed entity 
March 29, 2019 
30.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2019/78 
Modification of circular dated  September 24, 
2015 on ‘Format for compliance report on 
Corporate Governance to be submitted to Stock 
Exchange (s) by Listed Entities’ 
July 16, 2019 
31.  CIR/CFD/CMD1/79/201
9 
Modification of circular dated July 18, 2017 on 
‘Disclosure of divergence in the ass et 
classification and provisioning by banks’ 
July 17, 2019 
32.  CIR/CFD/CMD1/ 80 
/2019 
Procedure and formats for limited review / audit 
report of the listed entity and those entities 
whose accounts are to be consolidated with the 
listed entity 
July 19, 2019 
33.  CIR/CFD/CMD1/114/20
19 
Resignation of statutory auditors from listed 
entities and their material subsidiaries 
October 18, 
2019 
34.  CIR/CFD/CMD1/120/20
19 
Disclosure of divergence in the asset 
classification and provisioning by banks 
October 31, 
2019 
35.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2019/140 
Disclosures by listed entities of defaults on 
payment of interest/ repayment of principal 
amount on loans from banks / financial 
institutions and unlisted debt securities 
November 21, 
2019 
36.  CIR/CFD/CMD1/162/20
19 
 Format on  Statement  of  Deviation  or  
Variation  for  proceeds  of  public issue, rights 
issue, preferential issue, Qualified Institutions 
Placement (QIP) etc 
December 24, 
2019 
37.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CI
R/P/2020/12 
Non-compliance with certain provisions of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the 
Standard Operating Procedure for suspension 
and revocation of trading of specified securities 
January 22, 
2020 
38.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/38 
Relaxation from compliance with certain 
provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
due to the CoVID -19 virus pandemic 
March 19, 2020

[Page 288]
Page 288 of 291 
 
Sl. 
No
. 
Circular Number Subject Date 
39.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/48 
Further relaxations from compliance with 
certain provisions of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  
Regulations,  2015  (LODR) and  the  SEBI 
circular  dated  January  22,  2020  relating  to  
Standard  Operating  Procedure due  t o  the 
CoVID -19 virus pandemic 
March 26, 2020 
40.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/63 
Additional relaxations / clarifications in relation 
to compliance with certain provisions of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘LODR’) due 
to the COVID –19 pandemic 
April 17, 2020 
41.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/71 
Relaxation in  relation  to  Regulation  44(5)  of  
the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘LODR’) on 
holding of Annual Gener al Meeting (AGM) by 
top 100 listed entities by market capitalization, 
due to the COVID –19 pandemic 
April 23, 2020 
42.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/79 
Additional  relaxation  in  relation  to  compliance  
with  certain  provisions  of  SEBI  (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations 2015 –Covid-19 pandemic 
May 12, 2020 
43.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/81 
Relaxation  from  the  applicability  of  SEBI  
Circular  dated  October  10,  2017  on  non -
compliance with the Minimum Public 
Shareholding (MPS) requirements 
May 14, 2020 
44.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/84 
Advisory on disclosure of material impact of 
COVID-19 pandemic on listed entities under 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
May 20, 2020 
45.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/106 
Further extension of time for submission of 
financial results for the quarter/half 
year/financial year ending 31stMarch 2020 due 
to the continuing impact of the CoVID -19 
pandemic 
June 24, 2020 
46.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/109 
Further  extension  of  time  for  submission  of  
Annual  Secretarial  Compliance  Report  by 
listed entities due to the continuing impact of the 
CoVID-19 pandemic 
June 25, 2020 
47.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/110 
Relaxation of time gap between two board/ 
Audit Committee meetings of listed entities 
owing to the CoVID-19 pandemic 
June 26, 2020

[Page 289]
Page 289 of 291 
 
Sl. 
No
. 
Circular Number Subject Date 
48.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/140 
Extension  of  time  for  submission  of  financial  
results  for  the  quarter/half  year/ financial year 
ended 30th June 2020 
July 29, 2020 
49.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/144 
Clarification on applicability of regulation 40(1) 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 to open 
offers, buybacks and delisting of securities of  
listed entities 
July 31, 2020 
50.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/145 
Use of digital signature certifications for 
authentication / certification of filings / 
submissions made to Stock Exchanges 
July 31, 2020 
51.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/119 
Grievance resolution between listed entities and 
proxy advisors August 4, 2020 
52.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2020/159 
Grievance Resolution between listed entities 
and proxy advisers’ –Extension of timeline for 
implementation 
August 27, 2020 
53.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CI
R/P/2020/242 e-Voting Facility Provided by Listed Entities December 9, 
2020 
54.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CI
R/P/2021/11 
Relaxation from compliance with certain 
provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
due to the CoVID -19 pandemic 
January 15, 
2021 
55.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/P/
CIR/2021/556 
Relaxation from compliance with certain 
provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
due to the CoVID-19 pandemic 
April 29, 2021 
56.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-
2/P/CIR/2021/562 
Business responsibility and sustainability 
reporting by listed entities May 10, 2021 
57.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-
2/P/CIR/2021/567 
Format of compliance report on Corporate 
Governance by Listed Entities May 31, 2021 
58.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/P/
CIR/2021/602 
Holding of Annual General Meeting (AGM) by 
top 100 listed entities by market capitalization July 23, 2021 
59.   SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CI
R/P/2021/616 
Disclosure of shareholding pattern of 
promoter(s) and promoter group entities August 13, 2021 
60.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2021/662 
Disclosure obligations of listed entities in 
relation to Related Party Transaction 
November 22, 
2021

[Page 290]
Page 290 of 291 
 
Sl. 
No
. 
Circular Number Subject Date 
61.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2022/40 
Clarification on applicability of Regulation 23 
of  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 in relation to 
Related Party Transactions 
March 30, 2022 
62.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CI
R/P/2022/47 
Clarification on applicability of Regulation 23(4) 
read with Regulation 23(3)(e) of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 in relation to 
Related Party Transactions 
April 8, 2022 
63.  SEBI/HO/CFD/SSEP/CI
R/P/2022/48 
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for 
dispute resolution available under the stock 
exchange arbitration mechanism for disputes 
between a listed company and its 
shareholder(s)/investor(s) 
April 8, 2022 
64.   SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/C
IR/P/2022/62 
Relaxation from compliance with certain 
provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
May 13, 2022 
65.  SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-
1/P/CIR/2022/92 
Disclosure of holding of specified securities and 
Holding of specified securities in dematerialized 
form 
June 30, 2022 
66.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-
2/P/CIR/2023/4 
Relaxation from compliance with certain 
provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
January 5, 2023 
67.  SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/P/
CIR/2023/18 
Manner of achieving minimum public 
shareholding 
February 3, 
2023 
68.  SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CI
R/P/2023/120 
Master circular for compliance with the 
provisions of the Securities and Exchange 
Board  of  India (Listing  Obligations  and  
Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 
2015by listed entities 
July 11, 2023 
69.  SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 
BRSR  Core –Framework  for assurance  and 
ESG  disclosures for value chain July12, 2023 
70.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/123 
Disclosure of material events / information by 
listed entities under Regulations30 and 30A of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 
July 13, 2023 
71.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/167 
Relaxation   from   compliance   with   certain   
provisions   of   the   SEBI   (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 –Reg. 
October 07, 
2023 
72.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/7 
Extension of timeline for verification of market 
rumours by listed entities 
January 25, 
2024

[Page 291]
Page 291 of 291 
 
Sl. 
No
. 
Circular Number Subject Date 
73.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/51 
Framework  for  considering  unaffected  price  
for  transactions  upon confirmation of market 
rumour 
May 21, 2024 
74.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/52 
Industry Standards  on verification of market 
rumours May 21, 2024 
75.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 
Relaxation   from   compliance   with   certain   
provisions   of   the   SEBI   (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 –Reg. 
October 03, 
2024 
76.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CI
R/P/0155 
Master circular for compliance with the 
provisions of the Securit ies and Exchange 
Board  of  India (Listing  Obligations  and  
Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 2015  
by listed entities 
November 11, 
2024 
77.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177 Industry Standards on Reporting of BRSR Core December 20, 
2024 
78.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185 
Implementation of recommendations of the 
Expert Committee for facilitating ease of doing 
business for listed entities 
December 31, 
2024 
79.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/25   
Industry  Standards on Regulation  30  of  SEBI  
(Listing  Obligations  and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
February 25, 
2025 
80.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/35 
Disclosure of holding of specified se curities in 
dematerialized form March 20, 2025 
81.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-1/P/CIR/2025/42 
Measures to facilitate ease of doing business 
with respect to framework for assurance or 
assessment, ESG disclosures for value chain, 
and introduction of voluntary disclosure on 
green credits 
March 28, 2025 
82.  SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/ 
CIR/P/2025/47 
Clarification on the position of Compliance 
Officer in terms of regulation 6 of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
April 01, 2025 
83.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/93 
Industry Standards on “Minimum information to 
be provided to the Audit Committee and 
Shareholders for approval of Related Party 
Transactions” 
June 26, 2025 
84.  
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
PoD-2/P/CIR/2025/135 
Minimum information to be provided to the Audit 
Committee and Shareholders for approval of 
Related Party Transactions 
Oct 13, 2025 
***********
