[Page 1]
Page - 1 - of 86 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(1[ISSUE AND LISTING OF MUNICIPAL DEBT SECURITIES])  
REGULATIONS, 2015 
[Amended up to July 8, 2026] 
 
No. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2015-16/006.- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 30 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), to put in pla ce a 
framework for public issue of 2[municipal debt securities], listing and trading of such securities 
and matters incidental thereto, the Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely, —  
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (3[Issue and 
Listing of Municipal Debt Securities]) Regulations, 2015. 
(2) These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 
Definitions. 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined shall bear 
the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed 
accordingly,–   
(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Boar d of India Act, 1992 (15 of 
1992); 
(b) “advertisement” includes all forms of communication including notices, 
brochures, pamphlets, show cards, catalogues, hoardings, placards, posters, 
insertions in newspaper, cover pages of offer documents, pictures, films, etc., in 
                                                           
1 The words “ISSUE AND LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES BY MUNICIPALITIES” substituted by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by  Municipalities) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
2 The words “debt securities by municipalities” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
3 The words “Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities” substituted by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 
27.09.2019.

[Page 2]
Page - 2 - of 86 
 
any print media or electronic media or social media, radio, television 
programme; 
(c) "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under 
section 3 of the Act; 
4[(d) “constitution document” shall mean the Central or State Act, Rules, Regulations 
or charter under which the issuer has been established or incorporated or 
notified; 
 
                                                           
4 Clauses (d) to (q) substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to their substitutions, the clauses (d) 
to (q) read as follows,- 
“(d) “corporate municipal entity” means a company as defined under Companies Act, 2013, which is a 
subsidiary of a municipality and which is set up for the purpose of raising funds for a specific 
municipality or group of municipalities; 
(e) “debt securities” means a non-convertible debt securities which create or acknowledge indebtedness, 
and include debenture, bonds and such other securities of a municipality, or a corporate municipal entity, 
whether constituting a charge on the assets of such body or not; 
(f) “designated stock exchange” means a recognised stock exchange in which securities of an issuer are 
listed or proposed to be listed and which is chosen by the issuer as a designated stock exchange for the 
purpose of a particular issue of debt securities under these regulations; 
(g) "general obligation bonds" means debt securities where principal and interest are serviced through 
tax proceeds of the municipality. 
(h) "issuer” means any municipality or a corporate municipal entity, which makes or proposes to make 
an issue of debt securities in accordance with these regulations or which has its securities listed on a 
recognised stock exchange or which seeks to list its debt securities on a recognised stock exchange;  
(i) "municipality" means an institution of  self-government constituted under Article 243Q of the 
Constitution of India;  
(j) "national municipal accounts manual" means the municipal accounting manual formulated by the 
Ministry of Urban Development; 
(k) "offer document” means prospectus or shelf pr ospectus and includes any such document or 
advertisement whereby the subscription to debt securities are invited by the issuer from public;  
(l) "private placement" means any offer of debt securities or invitation to subscribe to debt securities to 
a select group of persons by a municipality through issue of a private placement offer letter to not more 
than two hundred persons, which shall not intend to result in, directly or indirectly,  the debt securities 
becoming available for subscription or purchase by persons other than those receiving the offer or 
invitation: 
Provided that for a corporate municipal entity, it shall mean an offer or invit ation made in terms of 
section 42 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder, through issue of a private 
placement offer letter; 
(m) “public issue” means an offer or invitation by an issuer to public to subscribe to the debt 
securities, which is not in the nature of a private placement; 
(n) "revenue bonds" means debt securities which are serviced by revenues from one or more 
projects; 
(o) “schedule" means a schedule annexed to these regulations; 
(p) "shelf prospectus" means a prospectus in respect of which the securities or class of securities 
included therein are issued for subscription in one or more issues over a certain period without 
the issue of a further prospectus: 
Provided that for a corporate municipal entity, it shall have the same meaning as assigned to it 
in section 31 of Companies Act, 2013; 
(q) “specified” means specified by a general or special order or circular issued under the Act or 
these regulations.”

[Page 3]
Page - 3 - of 86 
 
(e)   “credit enhancement” shall mean  any arrangement including subordination, 
insurance, letter of credit, over-collateralization, undertakings, guarantees, letter 
of comfort etc.;  
(f)    “designated stock exchange” shall mean a recognized stock exchange in which 
securities of an issuer are listed or proposed to be listed and which is chosen by 
the issuer as a designated stock exchange for the purpose of a particular issue of 
municipal debt securities under these regulations; 
(g)   “draft offer document” shall mean the draft offer document filed with the Board 
in relation to a public issue under these regulations;  
 (h)  “fugitive economic offender” shall mean an individual who is declared a fugitive 
economic offender under section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 
2018 (17 of 2018); 
 (i)  “general purposes” include such identified purposes for which no specific amount 
is allocated or any amount so specified towards general purpose or any such 
purpose by whatever name called, in the draft offer document or the offer 
document; 
(j)     “interest payment account” shall mean the account wherein the interest amount 
due to be paid by the borrower/issuer is deposited. 
(k)   “institutional investor” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Issue of Capital And Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018;  
(l)   "issuer” shall mean  any municipality or any S tatutory Body or Board or 
corporation, Authority, Trust or Agency established or notified by any Central 
or State Act or any Special Purpose Vehicle notified by the State Government 
or Central Government subject to the condition that it undertakes one or m ore 
functions that may be entrusted under Article 243W of the Constitution of India:   
Provided that any structure set up under the Pooled Finance Development Fund 
Scheme of the Government of India or a body corporate to whom the Companies 
Act, 2013 applies, which offers or proposes to offer municipal debt securities in 
accordance with these regulations shall also be deemed to be an issuer subject 
to condition that it is set up by the State Government(s) or Central Government 
for the purpose of raising funds for a person performing one or more functions 
entrusted under Article 243W of the Constitution of India.

[Page 4]
Page - 4 - of 86 
 
 (m)  “municipal debt securities” shall mean non-convertible debt securities which 
create or acknowledge indebtedness, and include debenture, bonds and such 
other securities of an issuer; 
(n)  "municipality" shall mean  an institution of self -government constituted under 
Article 243Q of the Constitution of India; 
(o)  "national municipal accounts manual" shall mean  the municipal accounting 
manual formulated by the Central Government from time to time; 
(p)  “no lien escrow account” shall mean the account created for the specific purpose 
of receiving and disbursing funds towards discharge of contractual obligations; 
(q)   "offer document” shall mean any document including an electronic document 
described or issued as an offer document or prospectus or shelf offer document  
and include any document or adv ertisement, whereby the subscription to 
municipal debt securities are invited by the issuer from public; 
(r)   “placement memorandum” shall mean  any document including an electronic 
document which is serially numbered and copies of which are circulated onl y 
to select investors and is related to an issue made on private placement basis;  
(s) "private placement" shall mean any offer of municipal debt securities or invitation 
to subscribe to municipal debt securities to a select group of persons by an issuer 
through issue of a placement memorandum to not more than two hundred 
persons in a financial year, which shall not intend to result in, directly or 
indirectly, the municipal debt securities becoming available for subscription or 
purchase by persons other than those receiving the offer or invitation: 
Provided that,- 
i. for a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, it shall mean 
an offer or invitation made in terms of section 42 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and the rules made thereunder, through issue of a placement memorandum; 
ii. any offer or invitation made to qualified institutional buyers shall not be 
considered while calculating the limit of two hundred persons; 
 
(t)    “preliminary placement memorandum” shall mean the placement memorandum 
filed with the Board and the stock exchange(s) in relation to a private placement 
under these regulations;

[Page 5]
Page - 5 - of 86 
 
(u)  “public issue” shall mean an offer or invitation by an issuer to public to subscribe 
to the municipal debt securities, which is not in the nature of a p rivate 
placement; 
(v)  “qualified institutional buyer” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Issue of Capital And Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations), 2018; 
5[(va)  “retail individual investor” means  an individual investor who applies or bids 
for municipal debt securities for a value of not more than two lakhs rupees;] 
(w)   “schedule" shall mean a schedule annexed to these regulations; 
(x)   "shelf offer document" shall mean an offer document in resp ect of which the 
municipal debt securities included therein are  offered for subscription to the 
public in one or more offers over a period not exceeding one year from the date 
of opening of the first offer of securities under that offer document, without the 
issue of a further offer document: 
Provided that for a body corporate to whom the Companies Act, 2013 applies, 
it shall have the same meaning as assigned to “shelf prospectus” in section 31 
of Companies Act, 2013; 
(y)   “sinking fund account” shall mean  the account that is created specifically for 
repayment of municipal debt securities; 
 
(z)    “specified” includes specified by regulations or by a general or special order or 
circular issued by the Board; 
(za)  “wilful defaulter” shall mean a person or an issuer who or which is categorized 
as a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution (as defined under the 
Companies Act, 2013) or a consortium thereof, in accordance with the 
guidelines on wilful defaulters issued by the Reserve Bank of India.] 
 
6[(zb)  “working day” means all days on which commercial banks in the city, as 
specified in the offer document, are open for business;  
Explanation: For the purpose of this definition, in respect of –  
                                                           
5 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and List ing of Municipal Debt Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026. 
6 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026.

[Page 6]
Page - 6 - of 86 
 
(i) Announcement of bid /issue period: working day shall mean all days, 
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays, on which 
commercial banks in the city as notified in the offer document are open 
for business;  
(ii) the time period between the bid/ is sue closing date and the listing of 
the non convertible securities on the stock exchanges: working day 
shall mean all trading days of the stock exchanges for non-convertible 
securities, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and bank holidays, as 
specified by the Board;] 
 
(2) All other words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations, shall have the 
same meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act 7[***] or Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996 or the Rules and  the Regulations made 
thereunder or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto. 
 
Applicability.  
3. These regulations shall apply to – 
8[(a) issuance and listing of municipal debt securities by an issuer by way of public 
issuance; and  
(b) issuance and listing of municipal debt securities by an issuer on private placement 
basis which are intended/disclosed to be listed on a recognised stock exchange.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
7 The words, symbols and numbers, “or the Companies Act, 2013” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities ) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 
27.09.2019. 
8 Clauses (a) and (b) substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt 
Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to their substitutions, the 
clauses (a) and (b) read as follows,- 
“(a) public issue of debt securities; and 
(b) listing of debt securities issued through public issue or on private placement basis on a recognised 
stock exchange.”

[Page 7]
Page - 7 - of 86 
 
CHAPTER II 
ELIGIBILITY 9[AND CONDITIONS] 
 
10[Reference date 
3A. Unless otherwise provided in these Regulations, an issuer making an offer of municipal 
debt securities shall satisfy the conditions of these Regulations as on the date of filing of the 
draft offer document or preliminary placement memorandum with the Board and also as on the 
date of filing the offer document or placement memorandum with the Board or upon registering 
the offer document or placement memorandum with the Registrar of Companies, as the case 
may be.] 
 
11[Eligible issuers.  
4. No issuer shall be eligible to issue municipal debt securities under these regulations, unless 
the following criteria are complied with: 
                                                           
9 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
10 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
11 Regulation 4 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Boa rd of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 4 as 
amended by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2017 read as follows,- 
“Eligible municipalities.  
4. No issuer shall be eligible to issue debt securities to public under these regulations, unless the following 
criteria are complied with: 
(a) municipality, whether proposing to issue debt securities itself or through corporate municipal 
entity, should be eligible to raise funds under its constitution;   
(b) accounts of municipality shall be prepared in accordance with National Municipal Accounts 
Manual or in accordance with similar Municipal Accounts Manual adopted by the respective 
State Government for at least three immediately preceding financial years; 
(c)  municipality shall have surplus income as per its Income and Expenditure Statement, in any  of 
the immediately preceding three financial years or any other financial criteria as may be specified 
by the Board from time to time.  
 Provided that a corporate municipal entity shall not have negative net worth in any of 
immediately preceding three financial years; 
(d) municipality shall not have defaulted in repayment of debt securities or loans obtained from 
banks or financial institutions, during the last three hundred and sixty five days:  Provided that 
where the issuer is a corporate municipal enti ty, the requirements at clauses (b) and (d) shall be 
complied by the municipality which is being financed;] 
(e)     no order or direction of restraint, prohibition or debarment by  Board against the corporate 
municipal entity or its directors is in force; 
(f)      the corporate municipal entity, its promoter, group company or director(s), should not have been 
named in the list of the wilful defaulters published by the Reserve Bank of India or should not 
have defaulted of payment of interest or repayment of principal amount in respect of debt 
instruments issued by it to the public, if any.”

[Page 8]
Page - 8 - of 86 
 
(a) the issuer, proposing to issue municipal debt securities is eligible to raise funds under its 
constitution document;   
(b) the accounts of issuer shall be prepared in accordance with any of the following: 
i. National Municipal Accounts Manual or;  
ii. Municipal Accounts Manual as adopted by the respective State Governments; or  
iii. Accounting standards, applicable to issuers, as prescribed under the Companies 
Act or;  
iv. Accounting standards/policies, applicable to issuers, as specified in their 
constitution document. 
 
(c) the issuer has not defaulted in repayment of debt securities or loans obtained from banks 
or financial institutions, during the preceding three hundred and sixty five days;  
(d) no order or direction of restraint, prohibition or debarment by the Board is in force against 
the issuer or its promoters or its directors from accessing the securities market; 
(e) an issuer or its promoter, group company or director(s) the reof, should not have been 
named in the list of the wilful defaulters; 
(f) any of its promoter or director(s) has not been declared as a fugitive economic offender(s): 
 Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 
applies or is a Special Purpose Vehicle, which is set up for the purpose of raising funds 
for an person for performing one or more functions entrusted under Article 243W of the 
Constitution of India, the requirements at clauses (b) and (c) above shall be complied by 
the person being financed.] 
 
12[In-principle approval 
4A. The issuer shall make an application to one or more recognized stock exchange for listing 
of such securities therein: 
Provided that where the application is made to more than one recognised stock exchanges, the 
issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange: 
Explanation.-For any subsequent issue, the issuer may choose a different stock exchange as a 
designated stock exchange subject to the requirements of this regulation. 
 
                                                           
12 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.

[Page 9]
Page - 9 - of 86 
 
Credit Rating 
4B. The issuer shall obtain credit rating from at least one credit rating agency registered with 
the Board, which shall be disclosed in the offer document or placement memorandum, as 
applicable: 
Provided that where credit ratings are obtained from more than one credit rating agency, all the 
ratings, including the unaccepted ratings, shall be disclosed in the offer document or placement 
memorandum, as applicable.  
 
Dematerialisation 
4C. The issuer shall enter into an arrangement with a depository registered with the Board for 
dematerialisation of the municipal debt securities that are proposed to be issued, in accordance 
with the Depositories Act, 1996, rules and regulations made thereunder.  
 
Debenture trustee 
4D. The issuer shall appoint a debenture trustee registered with the Board in accordance with 
the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 
1993. 
 
Mandatory Listing 
4E. (1) The issu er shall make an application for listing to one or more recognised stock 
exchanges in the manner specified by the Board.   
(2) In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from any of the recognized 
stock exchanges where the municipal debt securities were proposed to be listed, it shall refund 
the entire monies received within seven days of receipt of intimation from stock exchange or 
in case of multiple stock exchange(s) within seven days from the earliest intimation rejecting 
the application for listing of municipal debt securities, and if any such money is not repaid after 
the issuer becomes liable to repay it, the issuer shall be liable to repay that money with interest 
at the rate of fifteen percent per annum till such refund is made: 
Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013, applies 
every director of the company who is an officer in default shall also be jointly and severally 
liable to repay that money with interest.]

[Page 10]
Page - 10 - of 86 
 
13[Issuance of Environment, Social and Governance Debt Securities  
4F. An issuer desirous of issuing and listing of Environment, Social and Governance Debt 
Securities shall comply with the conditions as may be specified for such securities under 
Securities an d Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non -Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021 and circulars issued thereunder.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
13 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026.

[Page 11]
Page - 11 - of 86 
 
CHAPTER III 
REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 
 
14[Eligibility Conditions for public issue 
5. No issuer shall make a public issue  of municipal debt securities unless the following 
conditions are complied with: 
(a) the issuer has surplus income as per its Income and Expenditure Statement in any of 
the immediately preceding three financial years or as per any other financial criteria as 
may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
                                                           
14 Regulation 5 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 5 read 
as follows,- 
“General conditions. 
5. (1) An issuer making public issue of debt securities shall only issue revenue bonds.  
(2) No issuer shall make a public issue of revenue bonds unless following conditions are complied with: 
(a) it has made an application to one or more recognised stock exchanges for listing of such securities 
therein: 
Provided that where the application is made to more than one recognised stock exchanges, the 
issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange: 
Provided further that where any of such stock exchanges have nationwide trading terminals, the 
issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange; 
Explanation.-For any subsequent public issue, the issuer may choose a different stock exchange as 
a designated stock exchange subject to the requirements of this regulation; 
(b) it has obtained in -principle approval for listing of its revenue bonds  on the recognised stock 
exchanges where the application for listing has been made; 
(c) credit rating has been obtained from at least one credit rating agency registered with the Board and 
is disclosed in the offer document: 
Provided that the revenue bonds int ended to be issued shall have a minimum investment grade 
rating:  
Provided further that where credit ratings are obtained from more than one credit rating agencies, 
all the ratings, including the unaccepted ratings, shall be disclosed in the offer document ; 
(d) it has entered into an arrangement with a depository registered with the Board for dematerialisation 
of the revenue bonds that are proposed to be issued to the public, in accordance with the 
Depositories Act, 1996 and regulations made there under. 
(3) The revenue bonds shall have a minimum tenure of three years or such period as specified by the Board 
from time to time. 
(4) The revenue bonds shall have a maximum tenure of thirty years or such period as specified by the Board 
from time to time. 
(5) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers registered with the Board at least one of whom 
shall be a lead merchant banker. 
(6) The issuer shall create a separate escrow account for servicing of revenue bonds with earmarked 
revenue. 
(7) The issuer shall  appoint a monitoring agency such as public financial institution or a scheduled 
commercial bank to monitor the earmarked revenue in the escrow account under sub -regulation (6): 
Provided that where the issuer is corporate municipal entity, it shall appoint  a debenture trustee registered 
with the Board in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture 
Trustees) Regulations, 1993 and Companies Act, 2013.”

[Page 12]
Page - 12 - of 86 
 
Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 
applies, it shall not have negative net worth in any of immediately preceding three 
financial years; 
Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 
applies or is a Special Purpose Vehicle, which is set up for the purpose of raising funds 
for an person for performing one or more functions entrusted under Article 2 43W of 
the Constitution of India, the requirements at clause (a) shall be complied by the person 
being financed; 
(b) Any other conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
15[Pooled financing through Special Purpose Vehicle  
5A. In case the issuer is a special purpose vehicle set up under the Pooled Finance Development 
Fund Scheme of the Government of India, the constituent Municipalities shall enter into an 
agreement with such issuer prior to raising funds and shall disclose the same in the offer 
document. Such special purpose vehicle shall be formed as either a Trust or a Company.] 
 
16[Disclosures in the draft offer document and offer document. 
6. (1) The draft offer document and offer document shall contain true, fair and material 
disclosures, which are necessary for the subscribers of the municipal debt securities to take an 
informed investment decision. 
                                                           
15 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026. 
16 Regulation 6 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 6 read 
as follows,- 
“Disclosures in the offer document. 
6. (1) The offer document shall contain true, fair and material disclosures, which are necessary for the 
subscribers of the revenue bonds to take an informed investment decision. 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub -regulation (1), the issuer, whic h is a municipality, and the 
lead merchant banker shall ensure that the offer document contains the following: 
(a) disclosures specified in Schedule Iof these regulations; 
(b) disclosures with respect to compliance with regulation 12; 
(c) additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that in case of issuer being a corporate municipal entity, the issuer and the lead merchant banker 
shall ensure that the offer document contains the following: 
(i) disclosures as specified in Companies Act, 2013 and Compani es (Prospectus and Allotment of 
Securities) Rules, 2014; 
(ii) disclosures specified in Schedule Iof these regulations; 
(iii) disclosures with respect to compliance with regulation 12;  
(iv) additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board.”

[Page 13]
Page - 13 - of 86 
 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the issuer and the lead manager 
shall ensure that the draft offer document contains the following: 
(a) disclosures specified in Schedule I 17[or Schedule IB, as applicable,] and Schedule IA 
of these regulations; 
(b) additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that in case the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, 
the issuer and the lead manager shall ensure that the draft offer document and the offer 
document also contain the disclosures as ma ndated by the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014. 
 
(3) The  lead  manager(s)  shall  exercise  due  diligence  and  satisfy  themselves  about  all  
aspects  of the  issue  including  the  veracity  and  adequacy  of disclosures  in  the  draft  offer  
document  and  the offer document.] 
 
18[Appointment of Merchant Banker and other intermediaries 
6A. (1)The  issuer  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  which  are  registered  
with  the Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.   
(2) Where  the  issue is  managed  by  more  than  one  lead  manager,  the  rights,  obligations  
and responsibilities, relating to disclosures,  allotment, refund  and underwriting obligations 
among other things, if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and be disclosed in 
the draft offer document and the offer document. 
(3) The issuer shall, in consultation w ith the lead manager(s), appoint other registered 
intermediaries after the lead manager(s) have independently assessed their capability to carry 
out their obligations. 
(4) Where there is only one lead manager he shall not be an associate (as defined under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer. 
(5) In case there are multiple lead managers, at least one lead manager to the issue shall not be 
an associate (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) 
Regulations, 1992) of the issuer  
                                                           
17 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026. 
18 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.

[Page 14]
Page - 14 - of 86 
 
(6) If the lead manager is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose itself as an associate of the 
issuer and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.] 
 
19[Filing of draft offer document 
7. (1) No issuer shall make a public issue of municipal debt securities unless a draft offer 
document has been filed with the Board and designated stock exchange through the lead 
manager: 
                                                           
19 Regulation 7 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 7 read 
as follows,- 
“Filing of draft offer document 
7. (1) No issuer shall make a public issue of revenue bonds unless a draft offer document has been filed 
with the designated stock exchange through the lead merchant banker:  
Provided that where an issuer has filed a shelf prospectus, not more than four public issuances shall be 
made through a single shelf prospectus during a financial year.  
(2) The draft offer document filed with the designated stock exchange shall be made public by posting 
the same on the website of the designated stock exchange for seeking public comments for a period of 
seven working days from the date of filing the draft offer document with such exchange.  
(3) The draft offer document may also be displaye d on the website of the issuer, merchant bankers and 
the stock exchanges where the revenue bonds are proposed to be listed. 
(4) The lead merchant banker shall ensure that the draft offer document specifies the names and contact 
details of the compliance of ficer of the lead merchant banker, the officer concerned and the project 
officer, wherever applicable,  of the issuer including their postal and email address, telephone and fax 
numbers. 
(5) The lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received on the draft offer document are 
suitably addressed: 
Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, the lead merchant banker shall ensure that 
all comments received on the draft offer document are suitably addressed prior to the filing of t he final 
offer document with the Registrar of Companies. 
(6) The issuer shall, before filing of draft offer documents with Board,  obtain a “Viability Certificate“ 
or Detailed Project Appraisal Report (DPR) from a scheduled commercial bank or public financ ial 
institution stating that the project is financially viable, based on the estimates/assumptions available at 
that time. 
(7) A copy of draft and final offer document shall also be forwarded to the Board for its records, 
simultaneously with filing of these documents with designated stock exchange. 
(8) The issuer filing a shelf prospectus shall file a copy of an information memorandum with the 
recognised stock exchanges and the Board and in case of a corporate municipal entity, file the same with 
the Registrar of Companies. 
(9) Where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, the information memorandum shall contain the 
disclosures specified in Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder and shall include disclosures 
regarding summary term sheet, material  updations including revision in ratings, if any, along with the 
rating rationale and financial ratios specified in Schedule I. 
(10) The lead merchant banker shall, prior to opening of the public issue, furnish to the Board a due 
diligence certificate as per Schedule II of these regulations: 
Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, t he lead merchant banker shall, prior to 
filing of the final offer document with the Registrar of Companies, furnish to the Board a due diligence 
certificate as per Schedule II of these regulations. 
(11) The debenture trustee, wherever appointed under proviso to sub-regulation (7) of Regulation 5 shall, 
prior to the opening of the public issue, furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate as per Schedule  
III of these regulations.”

[Page 15]
Page - 15 - of 86 
 
Provided that where an issuer has filed a shelf offer document, not more than four public 
issuances shall be made through a single shelf offer document.  
 
(2) The lead manager shall submit the following to the Board along with the draft offer 
document, - 
(a) certificate confirming that a written agreement has been entered into between 
the issuer and the lead manger; 
(b) a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule II. 
 
(3) The  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue  observations,  if  any,  on  the  draft  offer  
document within twenty one days from the later of the following dates: 
a) the date of receipt of the draft offer document under sub-regulation (1); or 
b) the  date  of  rec eipt  of  satisfactory  reply  from  the  lead  manager(s),  where  
the  Board  has sought any clarification or additional information from them; or 
c) the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, 
where the Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or 
agency; or 
d) the date of receipt of a copy of in -principle approval letter issued by the stock 
exchange(s). 
 
(4) The draft offer document filed with the designated stock exchange shall be made public by 
posting the same on the website of the designated stock exchange for seeking public comments 
for a period of fifteen days from the date of filing the draft offer document with such exchange 
and shall be available for download in PDF / HTML formats. 
(5) The draft offer document shall also be displayed on the website of the issuer, lead 
manager(s) and the stock exchanges where the municipal debt securities are proposed to be 
listed. 
(6) The lead manager shall ensure that the draft offer document specifies the names and contact 
details of the compliance officer of th e lead manager , the officer concerned and the project 
officer, wherever applicable,  of the issuer including their postal and email address, telephone 
and fax numbers. 
(7) The lead manager shall after expiry of the period  stipulated in sub-regulation (4) file with 
the Board the details of the comments received by them or the issuer from the public in respect

[Page 16]
Page - 16 - of 86 
 
of the draft offer document, during th e period stipulated in sub -regulation (4), alongwith the 
consequential changes, if any, that are required to be made in the draft offer document. 
 
(8) If  the  Board  specifies  any  changes  or  issues  observations,  the issuer  and  lead  
manager(s)  shall  carry  out  such  changes  in  the  draft  offer  document and  shall submit  to 
the  Board  the updated draft offer document complying  with  the  observations  issued  by the 
Board and highlighting all changes made in the draft offer document and  before filing  the  
offer  document with  the stock exchange or Registrar of Companies, as the case may be. 
(9) The  lead  manager(s)  shall  submit  the  following  documents  to  the  Board  after  issuance  
of observations  by  the  Board  or  after  expiry  of  the  period  stipulated  in  sub -regulation  
(3) of this regulation if the Board has not issued observations: 
a) a  statement  certifying  that  all  changes,  suggestions  and  observations  made  
by  the  Board have been incorporated in the offer document or the placement 
memorandum; 
b) a due  diligence  certificate  as per Form B and Form C of Schedule  II. 
 
(10) A copy of draft and final offer document along -with a soft copy shall also be forwarded 
to the Board, simultaneously with filing of these documents with the designated stock 
exchange. 
(11) The issuer filing a shelf offer document shall  also file a copy of an information 
memorandum, containing all material facts including changes in the financial position as have 
occurred between the previous offer or first offer or subsequent offer of municipal debt 
securities, with the recognised stock exchanges and the Board and in case the issuer is a body 
corporate to whom the Companies Act, 2013 applies such issuer shall also file the same with 
the Registrar of Companies. 
(12) The lead manager shall, furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate as per Schedule II 
of these regulations with the offer document prior to opening of the public issue: 
Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, 
the lead m anager shall, prior to filing of the final offer document with the Registrar of 
Companies, furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate as per Schedule II of these 
regulations. 
(13) The debenture trustee, shall, prior to the opening of the public issue, furnish to the Board 
a due diligence certificate as per Schedule III of these regulations.

[Page 17]
Page - 17 - of 86 
 
(14) The issuer and the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the offer documents are hosted on the 
websites as required under these regulations and its cont ents are the same as the versions as 
filed with the Registrar of Companies, Board and the stock exchanges, as applicable. 
(15) The lead manager(s) and the stock exchanges shall provide copies of the offer document 
to the public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum for providing a copy of 
the same.] 
 
20[Period of subscription  
8. (1) Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, public issue of municipal debt 
securities shall be kept open for at least three working days.  
(2) The issuer may extend the bidding period disclosed in the offer document, in case of force 
majeure, banking strike or similar circumstances, for a minimum period of three working days.] 
 
Advertisements for public issues. 
9. (1) The issuer may make an advertisement  21[through electronic modes such as online 
newspapers or website of the issuer or the stock exchange, or ] in a national daily with wide 
circulation, on or before the issue opening date and such advertisement shall, amongst other 
things, contain the disclosures as per Schedule IV 22[:] 
23[Provided that issuers opting to advertise the public issue through electronic modes shall also 
publish a notice in a national daily with wide circulation, exhibiting a QR Code and link to the 
complete advertisement.] 
                                                           
20 Regulation 8 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 8 read 
as follows,- 
“Mode of disclosure of offer document. 
8. (1) The draft and final offer document shall be displayed on the websites of stock exchanges and shall 
be available for download in PDF / HTML formats. 
(2) The draft offer document shall be filed with the designated stock exchange, for dissemination on its 
website prior to the opening of the issue: 
Provided that where the issuer is a Corporate Municipal Entity, the final offer document shall be filed 
with the designated stock exchange, simultaneously with filing thereof with the Registrar of Companies, 
for dissemination on its website prior to the opening of the issue. 
(3) Where any person makes a request for a physical copy of the offer document, the same shall be 
provided to him by the issuer or lead merchant banker.” 
21 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026. 
22 Substituted for “.”  vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal  Debt 
Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026. 
23 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026.

[Page 18]
Page - 18 - of 86 
 
(2) No issuer shall issue an advertisement which is misleading in material particular or which 
contain any information in a distorted manner or which is manipulative or deceptive. 
(3) The advertisement shall be truthful, fair and clear and shall not contain a statement, promise 
or forecast which is untrue or misleading. 
(4) Any advertisement issued by the issuer shall not contain any matters which are extraneous 
to the contents of the offer document. 
24[***] 
 (6) Any promotional or educative advertisement issued by the issuer during the subscription 
period shall not make any reference to the issue of 25[municipal debt securities] or be used for 
solicitation. 
 
26[term sheet] and application forms. 
10. (1) The issuer and 27[lead manager] shall ensure that: 
(a) every application form issued by the issuer is accompanied by a copy of the 
28[term sheet]; 
(b) the 29[term sheet] shall not contain matters which are extraneous to the 
contents of the 30[offer document]; 
(c) adequate space shall be provided in the application form to enable the 
investors to fill in various details like name, address, etc: 
31[Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, 
the term sheet may be read as abridged prospectus] 
                                                           
24 Sub-regulation (5) omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f . 27.09.2019. Prior to its omission sub -regulation (5) 
read as follows,- 
“(5) The advertisement shall urge the investors to invest only on the basis of information contained in 
the offer document.” 
25 The words “revenue bonds” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
26 The words “abridged prospectus” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing 
of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
27 The words “lead merchant banker” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing 
of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
28 The words “abridged prospectus” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing 
of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
29 The words “abridged prospectus” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing 
of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
30 The word “prospectus” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and List ing of Debt 
Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
31 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.

[Page 19]
Page - 19 - of 86 
 
 
(2) The issuer may provide the facility for subscription of application in electronic mode. 
 
Minimum subscription. 
11. (1) The issuer may decide the amount of minimum subscription which it seeks to raise by 
issue of 32[municipal] debt securities and disclose the same in the offer document: 
Provided such minimum subscription limit shall not be less than seventy five per cent of the 
issue size. 
(2) In the event of non -receipt of minimum subscription as specified above, all applicatio n 
moneys received in the public issue shall be refunded forthwith to the applicants, within twelve 
days from the date of the closure of the issue. 
(3) In the event, there is a delay by the issuer in making the aforesaid refund, then the issuer 
shall refund the subscription amount along with interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum 
for the delayed period. 
 
33[Over subscription  
11A. (1) Issuers shall be allowed to retain the over-subscription money up to 100% of the Base 
Issue size but not exceeding the rated size or any lower limit as specified in the offer document, 
if any.  
(2) For the issuers filing a shelf offer document, oversubscription may be retained up to the 
total size of the shelf offer document.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
32 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
33 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.

[Page 20]
Page - 20 - of 86 
 
34[Allotment  
12. (1) Allotment in the public issue of municipal debt securities should be made on the basis 
of date of upload of each application into the electronic book of the stock exchange: 
Provided that on and after the date of oversubscription, the allotments may be  made to the 
applicants on a proportionate basis upto the oversubscription limit. 
(2) The issuer and lead manager(s) shall ensure that the municipal debt securities are allotted 
and/or application monies are refunded or unblocked within such period as may be specified by 
the Board.  
(3) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the allotment, credit of dematerialised securities and 
refund or unblocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.  
(4) Where the securities are not allotted and/or application monies are not refunded or unblocked 
within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (2) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay interest 
at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum to the investors and within such time as disclosed in  
the offer document and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same.] 
 
 
                                                           
34 Regulation 12 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 12 read 
as follows,- 
“Utilization of issue proceeds. 
12. (1) The funds raised from public issue of debt securities shall be used only for projects that are 
specified under objects in the offer document.  
(2) The proceeds of the issue shall be clearly earmarked for a defined project or a set of projects for 
which requisite approvals have been obtained from concerned authorities. 
(3) The issuers shall maintain a bank account in which the amount raised from t he issue shall be 
transferred immediately after the closure of the issue and such amount shall only be utilised for specified 
project(s): 
Provided that where the issuer is a Corporate Municipal Entity, the issue proceeds, net of issue expenses, 
shall be used only for onward lending to municipalities, as disclosed in the offer document:  
Provided further that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, it shall maintain sufficient interest 
margin while onward lending to the municipalities, to meet its operating expenses and obligations.  
(4) The issuer shall establish a separate project implementation cell and designate a project officer who 
shall not be below the rank of deputy commissioner, who shall monitor the progress of the project(s) and 
shall ensure that the funds raised are utilised only for the project(s) for which the debt securities were 
issued: 
Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, such requirement shall be complied by the 
Municipality which is being financed. 
(5) Issuer’s contribution for each project shall not be less than twenty per cent. of the project costs, which 
shall be contributed from their internal resources or grants: 
Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, contribution of the concerned municipality, 
which is being financed by the corporate municipal entity, shall not be less than twenty per cent. of the 
project costs, which shall be contributed from its internal resources or grants. 
(6) The issuer shall disclose the schedule of implementation of the project in the offer document in a 
tabular form and the funds raised by the issuer shall be utilized in accordance with the said schedule. ”

[Page 21]
Page - 21 - of 86 
 
Underwriting. 
13. A public issue of 35[municipal debt securities ] may be underwritten by an underwriter 
registered with the Board and in such a case adequate disclosures regarding underwriting 
arrangements shall be disclosed in the offer document. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
35 The words “revenue bonds” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.

[Page 22]
Page - 22 - of 86 
 
CHAPTER IV 
36[MUNICIPAL DEBT SECURITIES ISSUED ON PRIVATE PLACEMENT BASIS] 
 
37[Listing on private placement basis 
14. An issuer may list its municipal debt securities issued on private placement basis through 
placement memorandum.] 
 
38[Preliminary Placement Memorandum 
14A (1) Prior to making a private placement of municipal debt securities which are proposed 
to be listed, the issuer shall file the preliminary placement memorandum with the Board  and 
stock exchange(s) through the merchant banker registered with the Board.  
 
                                                           
36 The words “LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
37 Regulation 14 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 14 read 
as follows,- 
“Mandatory listing. 
14. An issuer desirous of making an offer of debt securities to the public shall make an application 
for listing to one or more recognised stock exchanges:  
Provided that in case of issuer being corporate municipal entity, such an application shall be made 
in terms of sub-section (1) of section 40 of the Companies Act, 2013.” 
38 Regulation 15 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 15 read 
as follows,- 
“Conditions for listing of debt securities issued on private placement basis. 
15. (1) An issuer may list its debt securities issued on private placement basis on a recognised stock 
exchange subject to the following conditions:  
(a) an issuer may issue general obligation bonds or revenue bonds;  
(b) accounts of muni cipality being the issuer, shall be prepared in accordance with National 
Municipal Accounts Manual or in accordance with similar Municipal Accounts Manual 
adopted by the respective State Government for at least three immediately preceding 
financial years; 
(c) no order or direction of restraint, prohibition or debarment by  Board against the corporate 
municipal entity or its directors is in force; 
(d) the issuer, being a corporate municipal entity,  has issued such debt securities in compliance 
with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 and particularly section 42 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and rules prescribed there under and other applicable laws;  
(e) the issuer shall not solicit or collect funds by issue of debt securities, except by way of 
private placement; 
(f) the minimum subscription amount per investor shall not be less than rupees twenty five 
lakh or such amount as may be specified by Board from time to time; 
(g) credit rating has been obtained in respect of such debt securities from at least one credit 
rating agency registered with the Board;  
(h) the debt securities proposed to be listed are in dematerialized form;  
(i) the disclosures as provided in Schedule Iof these regulations have been made.”

[Page 23]
Page - 23 - of 86 
 
(2) The merchant banker to the issue shall submit the following to the Board along with the 
preliminary placement memorandum,- 
(a) disclosures as specified in Schedule I 39[or Schedule IB, as applicable,] and Schedule 
IA of these regulations; and 
(b) a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule II. 
 
 
(3) The Board may issue observations, if any, on the   preliminary placement memorandum  
within fifteen days from the later of the following dates: 
a) the date of receipt of the preliminary placement memorandum under sub -regulation 
(1); or 
b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the issuer and/or merchant banker to the 
issue, where the Board has sought any clarification or additional information from 
them; or 
c) the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where 
the Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or 
d) the date of receipt of a copy of in -principle approval letter issued by the stock 
exchange(s). 
 
(4) The merchant banker to the issue , as the case may be, shall ensure that all comments are 
suitably incorporated in the preliminary placement memorandum prior to filing the placement 
memorandum to the Stock Exchange(s); and the merchant banker to the issue shall provide the 
due diligence certificate as specified in Form B and Form C of Schedule II. 
(5) The debenture trustee shall, prior to the opening of private placement, furnish to the Board 
a due diligence certificate as per Schedule III of these regulations. 
 
Minimum subscription. 
15. The minimum subscription amount per investor shall be Rupees ten lakh.] 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
39 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026.

[Page 24]
Page - 24 - of 86 
 
CHAPTER V 
REQUIREMENTS FOR BOTH PUBLIC ISSUES AND PRIVATE PLACEMENT 
 
40[Electronic issuance 
16. An issuer proposing to issue municipal debt securities may make the same through the on-
line system and shall comply with the relevant requirements as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
Buy-back. 
17. The issuers may provide an option to buy -back the debt-securities at a value which shall 
not be less than the face value of the debt securities, from the investors 41[in the manner as 
specified by the Board from time to time]: 
Provided in such cases, appropriate disclosure shall be made in the offer document 
 
42[Put or call option 
17A. The issuer may recall municipal debt securities prior to maturity date at its option (call) 
or provide such right of redemption prior to maturity date (put) to all the in vestors at their 
option in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided in all such cases, detailed disclosure shall be made in the offer document or placement 
memorandum.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
40 Regulation 16 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of Ind ia (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 16 read 
as follows,- 
“Asset cover. 
16. An issuer, proposing to issue debt securities shall maintain 100% asset cover sufficient to 
discharge the principal amount at all times for the debt securities issued.” 
41 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
42 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.

[Page 25]
Page - 25 - of 86 
 
Prohibitions of mis-statements in the offer document 43[or placement memorandum]. 
18. (1) The offer document 44[or term sheet] 45[or placement memorandum]  shall not omit 
disclosure of a material fact which may make the statements made therein misleading 46[***].  
(2) The offer document or 47[term sheet] or any advertisement issued by an issuer in connection 
with a public issue of debt securities shall not contain any false or misleading statement. 
48[(3) The offer document  or placement memorandum  shall contain all material disclosures 
which are true, correct and adequate to enable the applicants to take an informed investment 
decision.] 
 
49[Utilization of issue proceeds. 
18A. (1) The funds raised from issue of municipal debt securities shall be use d only for the 
purposes indicated under the objects stipulated in the offer document or placement 
memorandum.  
(2) Where the  proceeds of the issue are earmarked for a defined project or a set of projects , 
prior requisite approvals, if applicable shall be obtained from the concerned authorities. 
(3) The issuers shall maintain a bank account in which the amount raised from the issue shall 
be immediately transferred after the closure of the issue and such amount shall only be utilised 
for the indicated project(s): 
Provided furthe r that the merchant banker to the issue , in case of private placement, shall 
confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing and trading approvals that all 
formalities in connection with the issue have been completed and  that the banker is free to 
release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of failure of the issue.  
                                                           
43 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
44 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
45 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
46 The words “in light of the circumst ances under which they are made” omitted by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019  w.e.f. 
27.09.2019. 
47 The words “abridged prospectus” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing 
of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
48 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
49 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.

[Page 26]
Page - 26 - of 86 
 
(4) The issuer shall disclose the schedule of implementation of the project in the offer document 
or placement memorandum in a tabular form and the funds raised by the issuer shall be utilized 
in accordance with the said Schedule. 
 
Issuer contribution 
18B. The contribution of the issuer for each issuance of municipal debt securities shall not be 
less than twenty per cent. of the project costs, which shall be contributed from their internal 
resources or grants that may be in cash or kind.] 
 
50[Creation of Escrow Accounts 
19. The issuer shall create a structured payment mechanism and maintain specific escrow 
accounts for the purpose of debt servicing of the municipal debt securities as specified by the 
Board from time to time.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
50 Regulation 19 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 19 read 
as follows,- 
“Creation of security for secured debentures. 
19. (1) The debentures shall be secured by the creation of a charge, on the properties or assets or the 
receivables of the issuer, having a value which is sufficient for the due repayment of the amount of 
debentures and interest thereon: 
Provided that in case  unsecured debentures are intended to be listed on stock exchange(s), then such 
debt securities shall either be backed by guarantee from State Government or Central Government or 
shall have a structured payment mechanism whereby the issuer shall deposit de bt servicing amounts 
in the designated bank account at least 10 working days before due date of payment.  
 
(2) The total value of secured debentures issued shall not exceed the market value of immovable 
property/other assets or receivables of the issuer, for which a charge shall be created. 
(3) The issuer shall give an undertaking in the offer document that the assets on which charge is created 
are free from any encumbrances and if the assets are already charged to secure a debt, the permissions 
or consent to create second or pari pasu charge on the assets of the issuer have been obtained from the 
earlier creditor. 
(4) The issue proceeds shall not be utilised until the documents for creation of security are executed. ”

[Page 27]
Page - 27 - of 86 
 
51[Trust deed. 
20. (1) A trust deed for securing the issue of municipal debt securities shall be executed by the 
issuer in favour of the debenture trustee. 
(2) The trust deed shall contain such clauses as may be specified in Schedule IV of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993: 
Provided that in case of private placement by a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 
2013 applies, the trust deed shall, in-addition contain such clauses as required under section 71 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules 2014. 
(3) The trust deed shall not contain a clause which has the effect of: 
(a) limiting or extinguishing the obligations and liabilities of the debenture trustees or the 
issuer in relation to any rights or interests of the investors; 
(b) limiting or restricting or waiving the provisions of the Act, or Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996, and the regulations and 
circulars or guidelines issued by the Board from time to time; 
(c) indemnifying the debenture trustees or the issuer for loss or damage caused by their 
act of negligence or commission or omission. 
 
(4) The issue proceeds shall not be utilised until the Trust deed is executed.] 
 
 
 
                                                           
51 Regulation 20 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 20 read 
as follows,- 
“Trust deed. 
20. (1) A trust deed for securing the issue of debentures shall be executed by the issuer in favour of the 
independent trustee or debenture trustee, as applicable, within three months of the closure of the issue. 
(2) The trust deed shall contain such clauses as may be prescribed in Schedule IV of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993: 
Provided that in case of private placement by a corporate municipal entity, the trust deed shall, in -
addition, contain such clauses as  prescribed under section 71 of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules 2014. 
(3) The trust deed shall not contain a clause which has the effect of: 
(a) limiting or extinguishing the obligations and liabilities of the debenture trustees or the issuer in 
relation to any rights or interests of the investors; 
(b) limiting or restricting or waiving the provisions of the Act, these regulations and circulars or 
guidelines issued by the Board; 
(c) indemnifying the debenture trustees or the i ssuer for loss or damage caused by their act of 
negligence or commission or omission.”

[Page 28]
Page - 28 - of 86 
 
52[Redemption and roll-over. 
21. (1) The issuer shall redeem the municipal debt securities in terms of the offer document or 
placement memorandum. 
(2) Where the issuer desires to roll-over the municipal debt securities issued, it shall do so only 
upon passing of a special resolution to that effect and give twenty one d ays’ notice of the 
proposed roll over to the holders of municipal debt securities: 
Provided that, if the holders of municipal debt securities do not provide consent for the 
proposed roll over within the notice period, the issuer shall redeem the municipal debt securities 
of such holders. 
(3) The notice referred to in sub - regulation (2) shall contain disclosures with regard to credit 
rating and the rationale for roll-over. 
 
                                                           
52 Regulation 21 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 21 read 
as follows,- 
“Redemption and roll-over. 
21. (1) The issuer shall redeem the debt securities in terms of the offer document. 
(2) Where the issuer being a corporate municipal entity, desires to roll -over the debt securities issued, it 
shall do so only upon passing of a special resolution to that effect and give twenty one days notice of the 
proposed roll over to the holders of debt securities: 
Provided where the issuer is a municipality, the notice shall be given to the holders of debt securities and 
stock exchanges where the debt securities are listed, upon the said decision: 
Provided further that in case the issuer is a municipa lity, if the holders of debt securities do not provide 
consent for the proposed roll over within the notice period, the issuer shall redeem the debt securities of 
such holders. 
(3) The notice referred to in sub - regulation (2) shall contain disclosures wit h regard to credit rating and 
rationale for roll-over. 
(4) The issuer  being a corporate municipal entity shall, prior to sending the notice to holders of debt 
securities, file a copy of the notice and proposed resolution with the stock exchanges where such securities 
are listed, for dissemination of the same to public on their websites. 
(5) The debt securities issued can be rolled over subject to the following conditions:  
(a) The roll-over is approved by a special resolution passed by the holders of debt secur ities through 
postal ballot having the consent of not less than 75% of the holders by value of such debt securities: 
Provided that this condition shall not be applicable to the issuer, which is a municipality:  
Provided further that in case of issuer being a municipality, a period of seven days shall be granted 
to the holders of debt securities to provide their consent; 
(b) atleast one rating is obtained from a credit rating agency within a period of six months prior to the 
due date of redemption and is disclosed in the notice referred to in sub-regulation (2); 
(c) fresh trust deed shall be executed at the time of such roll over or the existing trust deed may be 
continued if the trust deed provides for such continuation ; 
(d) adequate security shall be created or maintai ned in respect of such debt securities to be rolled –
over. 
(6) The issuer shall redeem the debt securities of all the holders, who have not given their positive consent 
to the roll-over.”

[Page 29]
Page - 29 - of 86 
 
(4) The issuer shall, prior to sending the notice to holders of municipal debt securities, file a 
copy of the notice and proposed resolution with the stock exchanges where such securities are 
listed, for dissemination of the same to the public on their websites. 
(5) The municipal debt securities issued can be rolled over subject to the following conditions: 
(a) the roll -over is approved by a special resolution passed by the holders of such 
municipal debt securities having the consent of not less than 75% of  the holders by 
value of such municipal debt securities: 
(b) at least one rating is obtained from a credit rating agency within a period of six months 
prior to the due date of redemption and is disclosed in the notice referred to in sub -
regulation (2); 
(c) fresh trust deed shall be executed at the time of such roll over or the existing trust deed 
may be continued if the trust deed provides for such continuation; 
 
(6) The issuer shall redeem the municipal debt securities of all the holders, who have not given 
their positive consent to the roll-over.]  
 
53[Face value of municipal debt securities 
22. The face value of municipal debt securities shall be disclosed in offer document or 
placement memorandum in the manner as specified by the Board.   
 
Day count convention 
22A. The day count convention for calculation of interest payments for municipal debt 
securities shall be Actual/Actual and shall be calculated in manner as specified by the Board.  
 
 
 
                                                           
53 Regulation 22 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of I ndia (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 22 read 
as follows,- 
“Debenture redemption reserve. 
22. (1) For the redemption of the debentures issued by a corporate municipal entity, the issuer shall 
create debenture redemption reserve in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the rules made thereunder. 
(2) Where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity and the issuer has defaulted  in payment of interest 
on debt securities or redemption thereof or in creation of security as per the terms of the issue of debt 
securities, any distribution of dividend shall require approval of the debenture trustees. ”

[Page 30]
Page - 30 - of 86 
 
Prohibition on payment of incentives  
22B. Any person connected w ith the issue shall not offer any incentive, whether direct or 
indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise to any person for 
making an application in the issue, except for fees or commission for services rendered in 
relation to the issue 54[:]] 
55[Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall preclude the issuer from offering an 
incentive in the form of additional interest or a discount to the issue price to senior citizens, 
women, serving and retired defence  personnel, widows and widowers of defence personnel, 
retail individual investors or any other category of investors as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time:  
Provided further that such incentive shall be available only to the initial allottee but not in case 
the municipal debt securities are transferred/ transmitted post allotment.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
54 Substituted for “.”  vide the Sec urities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt 
Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026. 
55 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026.

[Page 31]
Page - 31 - of 86 
 
CHAPTER VI 
CONDITIONS FOR CONTINUOUS LISTING AND TRADING OF 56[MUNICIPAL] 
DEBT SECURITIES 
 
57[Continuous listing conditions. 
23. (1) The issuer  making public issues of municipal debt securities or seeking listing of 
municipal debt securities issued on private placement basis, shall comply with the conditions 
of listing specified in Schedule V of these regulations including continuous disclosure and other 
requirements specified by the Board from time to time.  
 
(2) Where the issuer is a body corporate to whom the Companies Act, 2013 applies, one -third 
of its Board shall comprise 58[***] independent directors, as defined in section 149 of the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
(3) Any change in rating shall be promptly disseminated in such manner as the stock exchange 
where such securities are listed may determine from time to time. 
                                                           
56 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. 
57 Regulation 23 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 23 read 
as follows,- 
“Continuous listing conditions. 
23. (1) All the issuers making public issues of debt securities or seeking listing of debt securities issued 
on private placement basis, shall comply with conditions of listing including continuous disclosure and 
other requirements specified by the Board in g eneral and those specified in Schedule V to these 
regulations.  
(2) Where the issuer is corporate municipal entity, one -third of its Board shall comprise of independent 
directors, as defined in section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
(3) Every rating obtained by an issuer shall be periodically reviewed by the registered credit rating agency 
and any revision in the rating shall be promptly disclosed by the issuer to the stock exchange(s) where 
the debt securities are listed. 
(4) In the event of credit rating  being downgraded by two or more notches below the rating assigned at 
the time of issue, the issuer shall present to all bondholders, the reasons for fall in rating and the steps, if 
any, it intends to take to recover the rating. 
(5) Any change in rating s hall be promptly disseminated in such manner as the stock exchange where 
such securities are listed may determine from time to time. 
(6) The issuer, the respective debenture trustees, wherever appointed, and stock exchanges shall 
disseminate all informatio n and reports regarding debt securities including compliance reports filed by 
the issuers and the debenture trustees, if appointed, to the investors and the general public by placing 
them on their websites. 
(7) The information referred to in sub -regulation (5) shall also be placed on the websites, if any, of the 
debenture trustee, the issuer and the stock exchanges.” 
58 The word “of” omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt 
Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026.

[Page 32]
Page - 32 - of 86 
 
(4) The issuer, the respective debenture trustees, and stock exchanges shall dis seminate all 
information and reports regarding municipal debt securities including compliance reports filed 
by the issuers and the debenture trustees, to the investors and the general public by placing 
them on their websites. 
(5) The information referred to in sub-regulation (3) shall also be placed on the websites of the 
debenture trustee, the issuer and the stock exchanges.] 
 
59[Accounting and audit. 
24. (1) An issuer shall prepare accounts in any of the manner specifie d in clause (b) of 
regulation 4:  
Provided that in case the Issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, 
the accounts shall be prepared in accordance with section 129 and 134 of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the rules made thereunder. 
(2) In case of the issuer being a municipality, the accounts of the issuer shall be audited by the 
persons appointed by the municipal corporations, as per missible under its constitution 
document: 
Provided that in case the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, 
the accounts of the issuer shall be audited by an auditor, in terms of section 139 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder.] 
 
                                                           
59 Regulation 24 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 24 read 
as follows,- 
“Accounting and audit. 
24. (1) An Issuer, being a municipality, shall prepare its accounts in accordance with the National 
Municipal Accounts Manual or in accordance with similar Municipal Accounts Manual adopted by 
the respective State Government: 
Provided that in case of the Issuer being a corporate municipal entity, the accounts shall be prepared 
in accordance with section 129 and 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder.  
(2) In case of the issuer being a municipality, the accounts of the issuer shall be audited by the persons 
appointed by the municipal corporations, as permissible under its constitution/state legislation 
governing the municipality: 
Provided that in case of an issuer being a corporate municipal entit y, the accounts of the issuer shall 
be audited by an auditor, in terms of section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made 
thereunder: 
(3) The bank account for issue proceeds and separate escrow account with earmarked revenues, shall 
be audited by persons so appointed by the municipality or the corporate municipal entity, within six 
months of the close of every financial year.”

[Page 33]
Page - 33 - of 86 
 
60[Trading and reporting of municipal debt securities. 
25. (1) The trades of listed municipal debt securities  shall be cleared and settled through a 
recognised clearing corporation in the manner specified by the Board.  
 (2) In case of trades in municipal debt securities which have been made over the counter, such 
trades shall be reported on a recognised stock ex change having a nationwide trading terminal 
or such other platform as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(3) The information in respect of issues such as issuer details, instrument details, ratings, rating 
migration, coupon, buyback etc.  shall be required to be reported to a common database as may 
be specified by the Board.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
60 Regulation 25 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 25 read 
as follows,- 
“Trading and reporting of debt securities. 
25. (1) The debt securities issued to the public or on a private placement basis, which a re listed in 
recognised stock exchanges, shall be traded and such trades shall be cleared and settled in recognised 
clearing corporation subject to conditions specified by the Board.  
(2) The trading lot for privately placed debt securities shall be rupees one lakh or such amount as may 
be specified by the Board. 
(3) In case of trades of debt securities which have been made over the counter, such trades shall be 
reported on a recognised stock exchange having a nationwide trading terminal or such other platf orm 
as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(4) The information in respect of issues such as issuer details, instrument details, ratings, rating 
migration, coupon, buyback, redemption details,  shall be required to be reported to a common database 
with depositories or any other platform as may be specified by the Board. ”

[Page 34]
Page - 34 - of 86 
 
CHAPTER VII 
                  OBLIGATIONS OF INTERMEDIARIES AND ISSUERS 
 
61[Obligations of debenture trustee. 
26.  ( 1) The debenture trustee shall be vested with the requisite powers for protecting the 
interest of holders of municipal debt securities:  
Provided that, where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies 
such powers shall include a right to appoint a nominee director on the Board of the issuer, in 
consultation with institutional holders of such securities. 
(2) The debenture trustee shall carry out its duties and perform its functions in terms of these 
regulations, the Securities an d Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 
1993, the trust deed and the offer document/placement memorandum, with due care, diligence 
and loyalty. 
(3) The debenture trustee shall monitor the separate escrow account maintained in respect of  
the earmarked revenue. 
(4) The debenture trustee shall ensure disclosure of all material events on an ongoing basis. 
                                                           
61 Regulation 26 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 26 read 
as follows,- 
“Obligations of monitoring agency and trustee. 
26.  (1) The monitoring agency appointed under sub -regulation (7) of regulation 5 shall be vested with 
the requisite powers for protecting the interest of holders of debt securities. 
(2) The monitoring agency shall inspect on half yearly basis, the utilization of issue proceeds in 
accordance with objects of the issue as specified in offer document and report, material deviation, if any, 
to the concerned stock exchange for public dissemination. 
(3) The monitoring agency shall monitor earmarked revenue in the separate escrow account.  
(4) The debenture trustee, wherever appointed, shall be vested with the requisite powers for protecti ng 
the interest of holders of debt securities:  
Provided that , where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, such powers shall include a right to 
appoint a nominee director on the Board of the issuer, in consultation with institutional holders of such  
securities. 
(5) the debenture trustee, wherever appointed, shall disclose the information to the investors and the 
general public by issuing a press release in any of the following events: 
(a) default by issuer to pay interest on debt securities or redemption amount; 
(b) failure to create a charge on the assets; 
(c) revision of rating assigned to the debt securities. 
(6) The debenture trustee, wherever appointed, shall carry out its duties and perform its functions under 
these regulations, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993, 
the trust deed and offer document, with due care, diligence and loyalty. 
(7) The debenture trustee, wherever appointed, shall ensure disclosure of all material events on an 
ongoing basis 
(8) The debent ure trustees, wherever appointed, shall supervise the implementation of the conditions 
regarding creation of security for the debt securities and debenture redemption reserve. ”

[Page 35]
Page - 35 - of 86 
 
(5) The debenture trustee shall supervise the implementation of the obligations cast in terms of 
provisions of these regulations.] 
 
62[Obligations of the issuer and merchant banker. 
27. (1) The issuer shall disclose all the material facts in the offer documents issued or 
distributed to the public and shall ensure that all the disclosures made in the offer document 
are true, fair and adequate and there is no mis-leading or untrue statements or mis-statement in 
the offer document. 
(2) The merchant banker(s) shall verify and confirm that the disclosures made in the offer 
documents are true, fair and adequate and ensure that the issuer is in c ompliance with these 
regulations.   
(3) The merchant banker(s) shall ensure that all transaction specific disclosures required in 
Schedule I 63[or Schedule IB, as applicable,] of these regulations are complied with: 
Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, 
the merchant banker(s) shall also ensure that the disclosures under Companies Act, 2013 and 
rules made thereunder are complied with. 
(4) The issuer shall treat the applicants in a public issue of municipa l debt securities in a fair 
and equitable manner as per the procedures as may be specified by the Board. 
                                                           
62 Regulation 27 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities 
by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, regulation 27 read 
as follows,- 
“Obligations of the issuer and merchant banker. 
27. (1) The issuer shall disclose all the material facts in the offer documents issued or distributed to the 
public and shall ensure that all the disclosures made in the offer document are true, fair and adequate and 
there is no mis-leading or untrue statements or mis-statement in the offer document. 
(2) The merchant banker(s) shall verify and confirm that the disclosures made in the offer documents are 
true, fair and adequate and ensure that the issuer is in compliance with these regulations.   
(3) The merchant banker(s) shall ensure that all transaction specific disclosures required in Schedule I of 
these regulations are complied with: 
Provided where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, merchant banker(s) shall also ensure that the 
disclosures under Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder are complied with. 
(4) The issuer shall treat the applicants in a public issue of debt securities in a fair and equitable manner 
as per the procedures as may be specified by the Board. 
(5) The issuer and merchant bankers shall be responsible for the due diligence in respect of assignments 
undertaken by them in respect of issue, offer and distribution of securities to the public.  
(6) No person shall employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud in connection with  issue or 
subscription or distribution of debt securities which are listed or proposed to be listed on a recognised 
stock exchange. 
(7) The issuer and the merchant bankers shall ensure that the security created to secure the debt securities 
is adequate to ensure hundred per cent. asset cover for the debt securities.” 
63 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026.

[Page 36]
Page - 36 - of 86 
 
(5) The merchant bankers shall be responsible for the due diligence in respect of assignments 
undertaken by them in respect of issue, offer and distribution of securities to the public. 
(6) There shall be no conflict of interest between the lead manager(s) and the issuer or its group 
companies in accordance with the applicable regulations.]

[Page 37]
Page - 37 - of 86 
 
64[CHAPTER VIIA 
PROCEDURE IN CASE OF VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS 
 
Directions by the Board 
27A. Without prejudice to the action under section 11, 11A, 11 B, 11D, sub - section (3) of 
section 12, Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act or section 439 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
the Board may suo -motu or upon receipt of information or on completion or pendency of 
inspection or investigation, in the interests of the securities market, issue or pass such directions 
as it deems fit including any or all of the following: 
(a) direct the issuer to refund the application monies to the applicants in a public issue; 
(b) direct the persons concerned not to further deal in securities in any particular manner; 
(c) direct the persons concerned not to access the securities market for a specified period; 
(d) restrain the issuer or it s promoters or directors from making further issues of 
securities; 
(e) direct the person concerned to sell or divest the securities; 
(f) direct the issuer or the depository not to give effect transfer or directing further freeze 
of transfer of securities; 
(g) any other direction which Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the 
case: 
 
Provided that the Board shall, either before or after issuing such directions, give an opportunity 
of being heard to the persons against whom the directions are issued or proposed to be issued: 
Provided further that if any ex -parte direction is required to be urgent issued, the Board may 
give post decisional hearing to the affected person: 
Provided also that where the issuer is a Municipality, the Board may communicate the 
instances of violation or non-compliance etc. if any, to the Central Government and the 
concerned State Government.] 
 
 
 
                                                           
64 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.

[Page 38]
Page - 38 - of 86 
 
65[CHAPTER VII-B 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
27B. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or 
any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding 
twelve months, for furthering innovation 66[***] relating to testing new  products, processes, 
services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities 
markets. 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub -regulation (1) shall be subject to the 
applicant satisfying such conditions as may b e specified by the Board including conditions to 
be complied with on a continuous basis. 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these  regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a  live 
testing environment where new  products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be 
deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering 
innovation in the securities market , subject to such conditions as may be specified by the 
Board.] 
 
67[Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
27C. (1) The issuer shall redress investor grievances promptly but not later than twenty -one 
calendar days from the date of receipt of the grievance and in such manner as may be specified 
by the Board. 
(2) The Board may also recognize a body corporate for handling and monitoring the process of 
grievance redressal within such time and in such manner as may be specified.] 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
65 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17 -04-2020. 
66 The words “in  technological  aspects” omitted by the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
67 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023.

[Page 39]
Page - 39 - of 86 
 
CHAPTER VIII 
MISCELLANEOUS 
68[***] 
Power to remove difficulties. 
29. In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions 
of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes 
or circulars:                                               
Provided that where any direction is issued by the Board in a specific case relating to 
interpretation or application of any provision of these regulations, it shall be done only after 
affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned persons and after recording 
reasons for the direction. 
 
69[Power to relax strict enforcement of Regulations 
30. The Board may, in the interest of investors or for the development of the securities market, 
relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulati ons, if the Board is satisfied 
that, -  
(a) the requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or 
(b) the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or 
(c) the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry or class of issuers;  
or 
(d) the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer ;or 
(e) such relaxation will be in the interest of securities market.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
68 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its omission, regulation 28 read as follows,- 
“Sanction for violations. 
28. Any contravention of these regulations shall be dealt with by the Board in accordance with the Act. ” 
69 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.

[Page 40]
Page - 40 - of 86 
 
70[SCHEDULE I 
                                                           
70 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securit ies by 
Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019  w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution Schedule I read as 
follows,- 
“SCHEDULE I 
[See Regulation 6(2)] 
Disclosures 
 
1. Where the issuer is a Corporate Municipal Entity, it shall make disclosures in accordance with 
Schedule I to SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 and shall also make 
below mentioned disclosures, whichever is relevant, pertaining th e municipalities proposed to be 
financed by the issue;  
 
2. Where the issuer is a municipality, it shall make below mentioned  disclosures: 
 
A. General Information 
1. The relevant Act under which the issuer of such securities is incorporated and governed  
2. Copy of t he Committee Resolution/Municipal Corporation authorizing the borrowing and list of 
authorized signatories.  
3. Copy of  the necessary Resolution(s) for the allotment of debt securities 
4. Copy of budget documents for last 3 years containing actual financial per formance and/or revised 
estimates along with the details of related party transactions 
5. An undertaking from the issuer stating that the necessary documents for the creation of the charge, 
where applicable, including the Trust Deed would be executed within t he time frame prescribed in 
the relevant regulations/act/rules etc and the same would be uploaded on the website of the recognised 
Stock exchange where the debt securities have been listed, within five working days of execution of 
the same.  
6. Any other particulars or documents that the recognised stock exchange, where the debt security have 
been listed, may call for as it deems fit.  
7. An undertaking that permission / consent from the prior creditor for a second or paripassu  charge 
being created, where applicable, in favor of the trustees to the proposed issue has been obtained.  
8. Name and contact details of the monitoring agency.  
9. Details of the separate escrow account opened for servicing of debt securities with earmarked 
revenue, wherever applicable. 
 
Issuer shall submit the following disclosures to the Debenture Trustee in electronic form (soft copy) at 
the time of allotment of the debt securities: 
1. The relevant Act under which the issuer of such securities is incorporated and governed. 
2. Copy of the Resolution authorizing the borrowing and list of authorized signatories.  
3. Copy of the necessary Resolution(s) for the allotment of debt securities 
4. Copy of budget documents for last 3 years containing actual financial performance a nd/ or revised 
estimates. 
 
B. An undertaking to the effect that the Issuer would, till the redemption of the debt securities, submit the 
details relating to the financials of the issuer to the Trustee within the timelines prescribed by SEBI for 
furnishing /publishing its half yearly/ annual result. Further, the Issuer shall, forthwith, submit a copy of 
the latest annual report to the Trustee and the Trustee shall be obliged to share the details submitted under 
this clause to debenture -holders within two workin g days of their specific request. The following 
disclosures shall be made in the offer document where relevant: 
 
I. Name and address of the following:-  
a. Head office/quarters of the Issuer  
b. Compliance officer of the Issuer  
c. Complete Details of the Official In -charge of dealing with investor Grievances related to the 
Municipal Bonds, his/her address, phone number, email ID, etc.  
d. Chief Accounts and Finance Officer or equivalent of the Issuer  
e. Arrangers, if any, of the instrument

[Page 41]
Page - 41 - of 86 
 
                                                           
f. Trustee of the issue  
g. Registrar to an issue  
h. Credit Rating Agency (-ies) of the issue and  
i. Auditors of the Issuer 
j. The relevant Act under which the issuer is incorporated and governed 
 
II. Comprehensive Disclosure regarding the Risk Factors, including proje ct risks, operational risks, 
credit risks, liquidity risks, etc.  
 
C.  Organization details: 
1. Details of Mayor / Deputy Mayor including date of appointment, etc. 
2. Details of Commissioner/ Deputy Commissioner including date of appointment, etc  
3. Details of any Reorganization or Reconstruction in the last 1 year:-  
Type of Event Date of Date of Details 
 Announcement Completion  
    
    
 
4. Details of the members of the Committee approving the project/ various Standing Committees 
relating to Taxation / Finance /Accounts/ Audit/ Infrastructure  
Name 
and 
Designat
ion 
Date of Appointment/ 
Resignation 
Member of the Committee since  
(in case of resignation) Remarks 
    
    
 
5. Details of the Auditors  
Name Address Auditor since 
   
 
6. Details of trustee  
 
Name  Address  Contact person 
   
 
D. A brief summary of the business/ activities of the Issuer and its project for which funds are to be 
raised containing atleast following information 
1. Overview of the issuer 
2. Management Structure of the issuer and the relevant department issuing the bond  
3. Details of all the project undertaken or proposed in terms of cost and means of financing  
4. Complete details of the project/s for which finance is raised 
i. An investment plan for the project components indicating phasing as well as financing approved 
by the local authority or the agency as the case may be 
ii. Schedule of implementation of the project  
iii. Capital structure relating to projects for which funds are proposed to be mobilized  
iv. Capital grant for the proposed project and the amount received in this regard 
v. Details of State Finance Commission Grant on annual basis 
vi. Benchmarks for commencement and completion of the project including milestone dates for all 
components of the project 
vii. Details and status of the regulatory approval (if required) 
viii. Financial viability of the project showing the stage wise cost and revenue flows for the project. 
ix. Revenue generation/resources and sufficiency for timely servicing and redemption  
x. Details of the independent trustee of the escrow account

[Page 42]
Page - 42 - of 86 
 
                                                           
xi. Latest Audit report of the escrow and project ac count by a firm of chartered accountants 
appointed by the concerned State Urban Development Departments from a panel CA’s approved 
by the C& AG. 
 
5. Performance with respect to key financial and operational parameters for the last 3 years  
I. Abridged Balance Sheet, Income and Expenditure and Receipts and Payments Accounts for 
the last three years with major heads; 
II. Link to the web page where the entire financials of the Municipal Body can be accessed should 
be given.   
III. Financial Parameters: 
 
Key Financial Figures FY FY FY 
Revenue Income    
Revenue expenditure (Excl. Interest)    
Operating revenue Surplus    
Interest expense    
Principal repayment (outside sinking Fund)    
Contribution to Sinking fund    
Revenue Surplus    
Capital Income    
Capital Expense    
Capital Surplus    
Overall Surplus    
Deposits and Advances (net)    
Initial Cash / Bank balance    
Change in Cash / Bank balance    
Final Cash / Bank balance    
Loan repayment from sinking fund    
Initial Sinking fund balance    
Change in sinking fund    
Final sinking fund balance    
Total Debt    
Ratio of Total Expenditure /Total Revenue    
Cash Surplus / Total Revenue    
Ratio of Debt Service / Total Revenue    
 
IV. Operational Parameters: 
Details of top 5 revenue sources for last 3 years 
Revenue Receipt type Actual Actual Actual 
 FY FY FY 
XYZ 1    
XYZ 2    
XYZ 3    
XYZ 4    
XYZ 5    
 
V. Details of property tax collection 
Parti
cular
s 
Demand Raised   Collections   
Overall 
Collection 
ratio 
Current 
Collection 
ratio Arrears Current Total Current  Arrear Total 
F
Y

[Page 43]
Page - 43 - of 86 
 
                                                           
F
Y  
      
  
F
Y  
      
  
 
VI. Status of reforms with respect to e -governance, cost recovery on water supply & Solid Waste 
Management (SWM), property tax, double entry accounting and others, as specified by MoUD 
and authorities concerned 
 
E. E.  Details of  Issuer’s outstanding borrowing 
I. Details of borrowings of the Issuer, as on the latest quarter end:-  
II. Details of Secured Loan Facilities:-  
 
Lender’s Type of Amt Principal Repayment Security 
Name Facility Sanctioned Amt Date /  
   outstanding Schedule  
      
      
      
      
III. Details of Unsecured Loan Facilities:-  
 
Lender’s Type of Amt Principal Repayment  
Name Facility  Sanctioned Amt Date / 
    outstanding Schedule  
       
       
 
IV. Details of NCDs/Bonds: - 
 
Debenture/B
ond Series 
Tenor / 
Period of 
Maturity 
Coupon Amount Date of 
Allotment 
Redemption 
Date/ Schedule 
Credit 
Rating 
Secured / 
Unsecured Security 
          
          
 
V. List of Top 10 Debenture Holders (as on ……)  
 
Sr. No. Name of Debenture Holders Amount 
   
 
Note: Top 10 holders’ (in value terms, on cumulative basis for all outstanding debentures issues) details 
should be provided. 
VI. The amount of charge created along with name of the counterparty (like name of the project 
etc.) 
VII. Details of Commercial Paper:- The total Face Value of Commercial Papers Outstanding as on 
the latest quarter end to be provided and its breakup in following table:- 
Maturity Date Amount Outstanding

[Page 44]
Page - 44 - of 86 
 
                                                           
  
VIII. Details of Rest of Borrowings 
IX. Estimated Scenarios of Asset Liability Mis-matches, efforts intended to resolve the same 
X. Details of all default/s and/or delay in payments of interest and principal of any kind of term 
loans, debt securities and other financial instrument issued by the Issuer, in the past 3 years .  
XI. Details of change in terms and conditions of debt securities issued in past 5 years (i.e. change 
in coupon, maturity, call/put option etc.) 
XII. An undertaking should be disclosed in the offer document that the issue has obtained Len ders 
consent for creating charge on assets (if the issue is of secured Bonds) 
XIII. Details of any outstanding borrowings taken/ debt securities issued for consideration other than 
cash, whether in whole or part, at a premium or discount, or in pursuance of an option;  
XIV. Any material event/ development or change having implications on the financials/credit quality 
(e.g. any material regulatory proceedings against the Issuer, resulting in material liabilities,  
restructuring event etc) at the time of the issue which may affect the issue or the investor’s 
decision to invest/ continue to invest in the debt securities. 
XV. The detailed rating rationale (s) adopted (not older than one year on the date of opening of the 
issue)/ credit rating letter issued (not older than one month on the date of opening of the issue) 
by the rating agencies shall be disclosed.  
XVI. Credit Enhancement Mechanisms if any, with complete details, if any. 
XVII.  The security is backed by a guarantee or letter of comfort or any other document / letter with 
similar intent, a copy of the same shall be disclosed. In case such document does not contain 
detailed payment structure (procedure of invocation of guarantee and receipt of payment by 
the investor along with timelines), the same shall be disclosed in the offer document.  
XVIII. In case there is an escrow mechanism for the repayment of the interest/principal, details of the 
same should be given.  
XIX. The names of the debenture trustee(s) shall be mentioned with statement to the effect that 
debenture trustee(s) has given his consent to the Issuer for his appointment. This also needs to 
be mentioned in all subsequent communications sent to the holders of debt securities.  
XX. Names of all the recognised stock exchanges where the debt securities are proposed to be listed 
clearly indicating the designated stock exchange.  
XXI. Penal interest payable by the Municip al Corporation in case of delay in execution of Trust 
Deed and Charge documents  
XXII. Additional interest to be paid, above the Coupon Rate, in case of default in payment of Interest 
and/or principal redemption on the due dates 
XXIII. Penal interest payable by the Municipal Corporation in case of delay in listing of debt securities 
from the deemed date of allotment 
XXIV. Other details  
XXV. DRR/such other reserve creation - relevant regulations and applicability.  
XXVI. Issue/instrument specific regulations - relevant details (Relevant Act, RBI guidelines, etc).  
XXVII. Application process 
XXVIII. Procedure for deciding and adjusting payment dates (in response to days when payment can’t 
be made due to any reason like sudden bank holiday.  
XXIX. List of documents which have been executed/ will be executed in relation to the issue 
XXX. Investor grievances mechanisms 
XXXI. Such other details necessary for the investors to make a well informed decision making 
regarding their investment in the proposed issue  
XXXII. Declaration signed by the Mayor and Commissioner  of the concerned Municipal Body stating 
that offer document contains true, fair and adequate information to enable investors to make a 
well informed decision making regarding their investment in the proposed issue.  
XXXIII. Declaration signed by the Director(s) of the Corporate M unicipal Entity stating that offer 
document contains true, fair and adequate information to enable investors to make a well 
informed decision making regarding their investment in the proposed issue. 
 
F. F. Issue details  
Summary term sheet shall be provided which shall include at least following information (where 
relevant) pertaining to the Secured / Unsecured Non-Convertible debt securities (or a series thereof):-

[Page 45]
Page - 45 - of 86 
 
                                                           
Security Name Name of the bond which includes (Issuer Name, Coupon and 
maturity year) e.g. 8.70% XXX 2015. 
Issuer   
Type of Instrument Secured or Unsecured 
Seniority Senior or Subordinated. 
Mode of Issue Private placement/Public issue 
Eligible Investors   
Listing ( including name of stock 
Exchange(s) where it will be listed and 
timeline for listing) 
  
Rating of the Instrument _______ by _____ Ltd. 
Issue Size   
Option to retain oversubscription 
(Amount)   
Objects of the Issue 
 The proceeds of the proposed issue shall be clearly earmarked for 
a defined project or a set of projects; 
The project(s) shall be financially viable project(s),  
i.e., should be able to generate a stream of revenue which should be 
sufficient to finance Operational & Maintenance cost 
Details of the utilization of the 
Proceeds   
Coupon Rate   
Taxable/Tax free  
Step Up/Step Down Coupon Rate    
Coupon Payment Frequency   
Coupon payment dates Dates on which coupon will be paid 
Coupon Type Fixed, floating or other coupon structure 
Coupon Reset Process (including rates, 
spread, effective date, interest rate cap 
and floor etc). 
  
Day Count Basis Actual/ Actual 
Interest on Application Money

[Page 46]
Page - 46 - of 86 
 
                                                           
Tenor __   Months from the Deemed from the date of Allotment 
Redemption Date Dates on which Principal will be paid 
Redemption Amount   
Redemption Premium /Discount   
Issue Price The price at which bond is issued 
Discount at which security is issued 
and the effective yield as a result of 
such discount. 
  
Put option Date   
Put option Price   
Call Option Date   
Call Option Price   
Put Notification Time Timelines by which the investor need to intimate Issuer before 
exercising the put option. 
Call Notification Time Timelines by which the Issuer need to intimate investor before 
exercising the call option. 
Face Value  
 Minimum Application and in 
multiples of _Debt Securities thereafter  
Issue Timing  
1. Issue Opening Date  
2. Issue Closing date  
3. Pay -in Date  
4. Deemed Date of Allotment 
  
Issuance mode of the Instrument 
Rs. 10 lakh per instrument for Demat only (for private placement) 
Trading mode of the Instrument Demat only (for private placement) 
Settlement mode of the Instrument  
Depository   
Business Day Convention

[Page 47]
Page - 47 - of 86 
 
[See regulations 6 and 27] 
 
                                                           
Record Date 15 days prior to each Coupon Payment date / Redemption date. 
Security (where applicable)  
(Including description, type of  
security, type of charge, likely date of 
creation of security, minimum security 
cover, revaluation, replacement of 
security). 
  
Transaction Documents   
Conditions Precedent to  
Disbursement 
  
Condition Subsequent to  
Disbursement 
  
Events of Default 
  
Provisions related to Cross Default  
Clause 
 
Role and Responsibilities of  
Debenture Trustee   
Governing Law and Jurisdiction 
  
 
Notes: 
Any change in Coupon Rate, along with events which lead to the change if there is any change in Coupon 
Rate pursuant to any event including elapse of certain time period or downgrade in rating, then such new 
Coupon Rate and events which lead to such change should be disclosed.”

[Page 48]
Page - 48 - of 86 
 
DISCLOSURES IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT AND PLACEMENT 
MEMORANDUM 
 
All disclosures specified under this schedule shall be made in the draft offer document or the 
preliminary placement memorandum or offer document or placement memorandum, as 
applicable. 
 
1. Instructions: 
(a) All information shall be relevant and updated. The source and basis of all statements and 
claims shall be disclosed. 
(b) All blank spaces in the draft offer document/ preliminary placement memorandum shall 
be filled up with appropriate data before registering the  offer document /placement 
memorandum, as applicable, with the Registrar of Companies or filing the same with the 
recognised stock exchanges. 
(c) Plain English shall be used to enable easy understanding of the contents. Technical terms, 
if any, used in explaining the business of the issuer shall be clarified in simple terms. 
(d) Wherever it is mentioned that details are given elsewhere in the document, the same shall 
be adequately cross-referenced by indicating the paragraph heading and page number. 
(e) There shall be no forward-looking statements that cannot be substantiated. 
(f) Consistency shall be ensured in the style of disclosures. If the first person is used, the 
same may be used throughout. All sentences that contain a combination of first and third 
persons may be avoided. 
(g) For presentation currency, only one standard financial unit shall be used. 
 
 
2. Applicability: 
An issuer making a public issue or private placement of municipal debt securities that are 
intended to be listed shall make the disclosures as specified in this Schedule. 
 
3. General information: 
(a) Name and address of the  head office and other offices of the issuers 
(b) Registered and corporate office of the issuer, if applicable 
(c) Details of Mayor / Deputy Mayor including date of appointment, etc.

[Page 49]
Page - 49 - of 86 
 
(d) Details of Commissioner/ Deputy Commissioner including date of appointment, etc. 
(e) Details of the members of the Committee approving the project/ various Standing 
Committees relating to Taxation / Finance /Accounts/ Audit/ Infrastructure in the 
following format :- 
Name and 
Designati
on 
Date of 
Appointment 
or Resignation 
Member of the 
Committee 
since  
(in case of 
resignation) 
Rem
arks 
    
 
(f) Name, designation, address and DIN of each member of the board of directors of the 
issuer if the issuer is a company. 
(g) Name, address, telephone number and email address of the compliance officer of the 
issuer 
(h) Complete Details of the Official In-charge of dealing with investor Grievances related to 
the Municipal Bonds, his/her address, phone number, email ID, etc.  
(i) Chief Accounts and Finance Officer or equivalent of the Issuer  
(j) Arrangers, if any, of the instrument  
(k) Debenture trustee of the issue  
(l) Registrar to an issue  
(m) Credit Rating Agency (-ies) of the issue and  
(n) Auditors of the Issuer 
(o) Names, addresses, telephone nu mbers, contact person, website addresses and e -mail 
addresses of the lead manager(s), registrars to the issue, bankers to the issue, brokers to 
the issue and syndicate member(s); alongwith URL of SEBI website listing out the details 
of self-certified syndicate banks, registrar to the issue and depository participants, etc., if 
applicable. 
(p) Names, addresses, telephone numbers and e -mail addresses of the Company Secretary, 
legal advisor, underwriters and bankers to the issuer. 
(q) Names of the debenture trustee(s) shall be mentioned with a statement to the effect that 
the debenture trustee(s) has given his consent to the Issuer for his appointment. This also

[Page 50]
Page - 50 - of 86 
 
needs to be mentioned in all subsequent communications sent to the holders of debt 
securities. 
(r) Investor grievances redressal mechanisms 
 
4. About the issuer and Capital structure of the issuer: 
(a) The constitution document 
(b) Details of the capital structure of the issuer, if applicable. 
(c) Details of the management structure of the issuer. 
(d) Shareholding pattern of the issuer along with top 10 shareholders of the issuer, if applicable. 
(e) Resolution authorizing the borrowing and list of authorized signatories.  
(f) Details of necessary Resolution(s) for the allotment of municipal debt securities 
(g) Memorandum and Articles of Association in case the issuer is a body corporate incorporated 
under Companies Act, 2013, if applicable 
(h) Details of any Reorganization or Reconstruction of management in the last 1 year of the 
issuer. 
(i) Details of all the project undertaken or proposed in terms of cost and means of financing 
(j) Capital structure relating to projects for which funds are proposed to be mobilized 
(k) Capital grant for the proposed project and the amount received in this regard 
(l) Details of State Finance Commission Grant on annual basis 
 
5. Objects of the issue: 
(a) The proceeds of the proposed issue shall be clearly earmarked for a defined project or a 
set of projects along with the location of the project and plant and machinery, technology, 
process, etc.; 
(b) Where the issuer proposes to undertake more  than one activity or project, such as 
diversification, modernization, or expansion, etc., the total project cost activity -wise or 
project wise, as the case may be. 
(c) Where the issuer is implementing the project in a phased manner, the cost of each phase, 
including the phase, if any, which has already been implemented, shall be separately 
given. 
(d) An investment plan for the project components as well as phases thereof as well as 
financing thereof as approved by the local authority or the agency as the case may be 
(e) Schedule of implementation of the project

[Page 51]
Page - 51 - of 86 
 
(f) Benchmarks for commencement and completion of the project including milestone dates 
for all components of the project 
(g) Details and status of the regulatory approval (if required) 
(h) Expenses of the Issue:  
 
Expenses of the issue along with a break up for each item of expense, including details 
of the fees payable to/for separately as under (in terms of amount, as a percentage of total 
issue expenses and as a percentage of total issue size): 
(a) Lead manager(s) fees including underwriting commission 
(b) Brokerage, selling commission and upload fees 
(c) Registrars to the issue 
(d) Legal Advisors 
(e) Advertising and marketing expenses 
(f) Regulators including stock exchanges 
(g) Printing and distribution of issue stationary 
(h) Others, if any (to be specified). 
71[(i) If the project is re -financed, the following details shall be provided in respect of the 
lenders and existing project(s) related loan(s) or debt that are being refinanced, as per the 
specified format:  
i. Type of existing loan/ debt 
ii. Original amount of loan / debt 
iii. Existing lenders 
iv. Existing rate of interest 
v. Existing repayment schedule 
vi. Details of project(s) financed by existing loan/ debt 
vii. Past restructuring, if any, on the said project 
viii. Reason for re-finance] 
 
6. Tax Benefits:  
Any special tax benefits (under direct and indirect tax laws) for the issuer and its investors 
                                                           
71 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026.

[Page 52]
Page - 52 - of 86 
 
 
7. Issue specific Information: 
(a) Issue/instrument specific regulations - relevant details (Relevant Act, RBI guidelines, 
etc.).  
(b) The detailed rating rationale (s) adopted (not older than one year on the date of opening 
of the issue)/ credit rating letter issued (not older than one month on the date of opening 
of the issue) by the rating agencies shall be disclosed. Names of all the credit rating 
agencies from which credit rating including unaccepted rating has been obtained. 
(c) Credit Enhancement Mechanisms if any, with complete details, if any. 
(d) Names of all the recognised stock exchanges where the debt securities are proposed to 
be listed clearly indicating the designated stock exchange.  
(e) Additional interest to be paid, above the Coupon Rate, in case of default in payment of 
Interest and/or principal redemption on the due dates 
(f) Penal interest payable by the issuer in case of delay in listing of debt securities from the 
deemed date of allotment 
(g) Debenture Redemption Reserve and such other reserve creation - relevant regulations as 
applicable.  
(h) Application process 
(i) Procedure for deciding and adjusting payment dates (in response to days when payment 
cannot be made due to any reason such as sudden bank holiday.  
(j) ‘Terms of payments’ and procedure and time schedule for allotment and issue 
certificates/demat credit 
(k) How to apply, availability of application forms and letter of offer and mode of payment. 
(l) Change in terms and conditions of municipal debt securities issued in past 5 years (i.e. 
change in coupon, maturity, call/put option etc.) 
(m) Procedure and time schedule for allotment and issue of municipal debt securities. 
(n) Details of escrow payment mechanism for the repayment of the interest/principal.  
  
8. Financial Information: 
 
I. Following details as per the financial statements for past 3 years in tabular format: 
(a) Abridged Balance Sheet, Income and Expenditure and Receipts and Payments Accounts 
for the last three financial years with major heads

[Page 53]
Page - 53 - of 86 
 
(b) Link to the web page where the entire financials of the Municipal Body can be accessed 
should be given.   
(c) Copy of budget documents for the previous three years containing actual financial 
performance and/or revised estimates along with the details of related party transactions 
(d) Financial Parameters: 
Key Financial Figures FY FY  FY 
Revenue income    
Revenue expenditure (Excl. Interest)    
Operating revenue Surplus    
Interest expense    
Principal repayment (outside sinking Fund)    
Contribution to Sinking fund    
Revenue surplus    
Capital income    
Capital expense    
Capital surplus    
Overall surplus    
Deposits and Advances (net)    
Initial Cash / Bank balance    
Change in Cash / Bank balance    
Final Cash / Bank balance    
Loan repayment from sinking fund    
Initial Sinking fund balance    
Change in sinking fund    
Final sinking fund balance    
Total debt    
Ratio of Total Expenditure /Total Revenue    
Cash surplus / total revenue    
Ratio of Debt Service / Total Revenue    
 
II. Details of top five revenue sources for the previous three years 
Revenue Receipt type Actual Actual Actual

[Page 54]
Page - 54 - of 86 
 
 FY FY FY 
XYZ 1    
XYZ 2    
XYZ 3    
XYZ 4    
XYZ 5    
 
III. Details of property tax collection 
Particulars Demand Raised 
  
Collections 
  
Overall 
Collecti
on ratio 
Current 
Collecti
on ratio 
Arrea
rs 
Curr
ent 
Tota
l 
Curre
nt  
Arre
ar 
Tot
al   
FY  
        
FY  
        
FY  
        
 
IV. Status of reforms with respect to e-governance, cost recovery on water supply, Solid 
Waste Management (SWM), property tax, double entry accounting and others, as 
specified by Central Government and authorities concerned 
 
V. Borrowings 
 
(a) Details of borrowings of the Issuer, as on the latest quarter end:-  
(b) Details of Secured Loan Facilities:-  
Lender’s 
Name 
Type of 
Facility 
Amt 
Sanctioned 
Principal 
Amt 
outstanding 
Repayment 
Date / 
Schedule 
Security

[Page 55]
Page - 55 - of 86 
 
      
      
 
(c) Details of Unsecured Loan Facilities:-  
Lender’s 
Name 
Type of 
Facility 
Amt 
Sanctioned 
Principal 
Amt 
outstanding 
Repayment 
Date / 
Schedule 
     
     
 
(d) Details of NCDs/Bonds: - 
Debenture/ Bond 
Series 
Tenor/  
 Period of 
Maturity 
Coupon Amount Date of 
Allotm
ent 
Redemp
tion 
Date/ 
Schedul
e 
Credit 
Rating 
Secure
d/ 
Unsecu
red 
Security 
         
 
(e) List of the Top ten Debenture Holders (as on ……)  
Sr. No. 
Name of Debenture 
Holders 
Amount 
   
 
Note: Top ten holders’ (in value terms, on cumulative basis for all outstanding debentures 
issues) details should be provided.

[Page 56]
Page - 56 - of 86 
 
(f) Details of Commercial Paper:- The total Face Value of Commercial Papers Outstanding 
as on the latest quarter end to be provided and its breakup in following table:- 
Maturity Date Amount Outstanding 
  
 
(g) Details of Rest of Borrowings 
 
(h) Details of any outstanding borrowings and debt securities issued for consideration other 
than cash, whether in whole or part, at a premium or discount, or in pursuance of an 
option;  
 
VI. Sufficient revenue generation and resources for timely servicing and redemption 
 
VII. Estimated Scenarios of Asset Liability Mis-matches, efforts intended to resolve the 
same. 
 
 
9. Legal and Other Information: 
 
(a) Pending litigations and material developments: 
 
Pending Litigations involving the issuer/ its directors/ promoters/ subsidiaries: 
(i) All criminal proceedings; 
(ii) All actions by regulatory and statutory authorities; 
(iii) Disciplinary action including penalty imposed by SEBI or stock exchanges against 
the promoters during the previous five financial years including outstanding action; 
(iv) Claims related to direct and indirect taxes, in a consolidated manner, giving the 
number of cases and total amount; 
(v) Other pending litigation - As per the policy of materiality defined by the Board of 
Directors of the Issuer and disclosed in the offer document/placement memorandum. 
 
(b) Outstanding dues to creditors:

[Page 57]
Page - 57 - of 86 
 
(i) Based on the policy on materiality defined by the Board of Directors of the Issuer, 
details of creditors which include the consolidated number of creditors and the 
aggregate amount involved 
(ii) Consolidated information on outstanding dues to micro, small and medium 
enterprises, separately giving details of number of cases and amount involved; 
(iii) Complete details about outstanding dues to material creditors along with the name 
and amount involved fo r each such material creditor shall be disclosed, on the 
website of the company with a web link thereto. 
 
(c) If any of the above mentioned litigation, material developments or dues to creditors etc., 
arise after the filing the draft offer document/ preliminary placement memorandum, the 
facts shall be appropriately incorporated in the offer document/placement memorandum. 
In case there are no such cases, a distinct negative statement is required to be made in this 
regard in the offer document/ placement memorandum.  
 
(d) Material developments since the date of the last balance sheet shall be incorporated 
separately in the offer document or placement memorandum. 
 
(e) Statement containing particulars of dates of, and parties to all material contracts and 
agreements:  
Provided that a recognized stock exchange may call for such further particulars or 
documents as it deems appropriate

[Page 58]
Page - 58 - of 86 
 
(f) Any material event/ development or change havi ng implications on the financials/credit 
quality (e.g. any material regulatory proceedings against the Issuer, resulting in material 
liabilities,  restructuring event etc) at the time of the issue which may affect the issue or 
the investor’s decision to invest/ continue to invest in the municipal debt securities. 
 
(g) Details of non-payment of statutory dues, if any. 
 
(h) Details of all default/s and/or delay in payments of interest and principal of any kind of 
term loans, debt securities and other financial instru ment issued by the Issuer, in the past 
3 years. 
 
10. Government approvals: 
(a) Investment approvals, letter of intent or industrial license from GoI, RBI, etc., as 
applicable and declaration of the Central Government, Reserve Bank of India or any 
regulatory authority about the non-responsibility for financial soundness or correctness of 
the statements; 
 
(b) All Government and other approvals which are material and necessary for carrying on the 
business and operations of the issuer and material subsidiaries. 
 
11. Undertaking by the issuer: 
 
The following undertaking by the issuer shall be given: 
 
(a) that it shall submit the documents disclosed in the offer document or placement 
memorandum to the Debenture Trustee in electronic form (soft copy) 
(b) that the complaints received  in respect of the issue shall be attended to by the issuer 
expeditiously and satisfactorily; 
(c) that all steps for completion of the necessary formalities for listing and commencement of 
trading at all stock exchanges where the securities are to be listed ar e taken within the 
period specified by the Board; 
(d) Declaration signed by the Mayor and Commissioner  of the concerned Municipal Body 
stating that the offer document/placement memorandum contains true, fair and adequate

[Page 59]
Page - 59 - of 86 
 
information to enable investors to mak e a well informed decision regarding their 
investment in the proposed issue. 
(e) Declaration signed by the Director(s) of the Issuer, if it is a body corporate to which the 
Companies Act, 2013 applies, stating that offer document/placement memorandum 
contains true, fair and adequate information to enable investors to make a well informed 
decision making regarding their investment in the proposed issue. 
(f) a statement to be given by the Board of the Issuer or Standing Committee thereof that all 
monies received out of the issue shall be transferred to a separate bank account. 
(g) the details of all utilized and unutilised monies out of the monies collected in the previous 
issue made by way of public offer shall be disclosed and continued to be disclosed in the 
balance sh eet till the time any part of the proceeds of such previous issue remains 
unutilized indicating the purpose for which such monies have been utilized and the 
securities or other forms of financial assets in which such unutilized monies have been 
invested 
 
12. Documents to be submitted 
 
(a) Copy of the resolution authorizing the borrowing and list of authorized signatories.  
(b) Copy of the Trust deed. 
(c) Documents that have been executed or shall be executed in relation to the issue 
 
13. Risk factors: 
 
(a) Risk factors shall be printed in a clear readable font (of minimum point ten size). 
(b) Risk factors shall be classified as those which are specific to the project and internal to 
the issuer and those which are external and beyond the control of the issuer. 
(c) Risk factors shall be de termined on the basis of their materiality. In doing so, the 
following shall be considered: 
i. Some risks may not be material individually but may be material when 
considered collectively. 
ii. Some risks may have an impact which is qualitative though not quantitative. 
iii. Some risks may not be material at present but may have a material impact in the 
future.

[Page 60]
Page - 60 - of 86 
 
(d) Each risk factor shall appear in the following manner: 
i. The risk as envisaged by the issuer. 
ii. Proposals, if any, to address the risk. 
(e) Comprehensive Disclosure regarding the Risk Factors, including project risks, 
operational risks, credit risks, liquidity risks, etc.  
(f) Management perception of risk factors specific to the project. 
 
Such other details necessary for the investors to make a well informed decision making 
regarding their investment in the proposed issue.]

[Page 61]
Page - 61 - of 86 
 
72[Schedule IB 
[See Regulation 6, 14A and 27] 
 
(Applicable in case of Special Purpose Vehicle, which is set up for the purpose of 
raising funds for a person for performing one or more functions entrusted under 
Article 243W of the Constitution of India)  
 
 
DISCLOSURES IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT AND PLACEMENT 
MEMORANDUM 
 
All disclosures specified under this schedule shall be made in the draft offer 
document or the preliminary placement memorandum or offer document or 
placement memorandum, as applicable.  
 
1. Instructions:  
(a)  All information shall be relevant and updated. The source and basis of all 
statements and claims shall be disclosed.  
(b)  All blank spaces in the draft offer document/ preliminary placement 
memorandum shall be filled up with appropriate data before registering the offer 
document /placement memorandum, as applicable, with the Registrar of 
Companies or filing the same with the recognised stock exchanges.  
(c)  Plain English shall be used to enable easy understanding of the contents. 
Technical terms, if any, used in explaining the business of the issuer shall be 
clarified in simple terms.  
(d)  Wherever it is mentioned that details are given elsewhere in the document, the 
same shall be adequately cross -referenced by indicating the paragraph heading 
and page number.  
(e)  There shall be no forward-looking statements that cannot be substantiated.  
(f)  Consistency shall be ensured in the style of disclosures. If the first person is used, 
the same may be used throughout. All sentences that contain a combination of  
first and third persons may be avoided.  
(g)  For presentation currency, only one standard financial unit shall be used.  
 
2. Applicability:  
 
An issuer making a public issue or private placement of municipal debt securities that 
are intended to be listed shall make the disclosures as specified in this Schedule. 
 
3. General information:  
                                                           
72 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 08.07.2026.

[Page 62]
Page - 62 - of 86 
 
(a) Name and address of the head office and other offices of the issuer  
(b) Registered and corporate office of the issuer, if applicable  
(c)  Details of the members of the Committee approving the Issue/ project(s) of the 
Issuer and Bond Issue Committee or any such similar committee, in the 
following format:-  
 
Name and 
Designation  
 
Date of Appointment 
or Resignation  
 
Member of the 
Committee since  
(in case of 
resignation)  
Remarks  
 
    
 
(d) Name, designation, address and DIN of each member of the board of directors 
of the issuer if the issuer is a company.  
(e) Name, address, telephone number and email address of the compliance officer 
of the issuer  
(f) Complete Details of the Official In-charge of dealing with investor Grievances 
related to the Municipal debt securities, his/her address, phone number, email 
ID, etc.  
(g) Chief Accounts and Finance Officer or equivalent of the Issuer  
(h) Arrangers, if any, of the instrument  
(i) Debenture trustee of the issue  
(j) Registrar to an issue  
(k) Credit Rating Agency (-ies) of the issue and  
(l) Auditors of the Issuer  
(m) Names, addresses, telephone numbers, contact person, website addresses and e-
mail addresses of the lead manager(s), registrars to the issue, bankers to the 
issue, brokers to the issue and syndicate member(s); along with URL of SEBI 
website listing out the details of self -certified syndicate banks, registrar to the 
issue and depository participants, etc., if applicable.  
(n) Names, addresses, telephone numbers and e -mail addresses of the Company 
Secretary, legal advisor, underwriters and bankers to the issue.  
(o) Names of the debenture trus tee(s) shall be mentioned with a statement to the 
effect that the debenture trustee(s) has given his consent to the Issuer for his 
appointment. This also needs to be mentioned in all subsequent communications 
sent to the holders of debt securities.  
(p) Investor grievances redressal mechanisms.  
 
4. About the issuer and Capital structure of the issuer: 
 
(a) The constitution document of the issuer. 
(b) Details of the capital structure of the issuer, if applicable. 
(c) Details of the management structure of the issuer.

[Page 63]
Page - 63 - of 86 
 
(d) Shareholding pattern of the issuer along with top 10 shareholders of the issuer, if 
applicable. 
(e) Resolution authorizing the borrowing of the Issuer and each constituent 
Municipality along with the list of authorized signatories of the Issuer. 
(f) Details of necessary Resolution(s) for the allotment of municipal debt securities 
of the issuer. 
(g) Memorandum and Articles of Association in case the issuer is a body corporate 
incorporated under Companies Act, 2013, if applicable. 
(h) Details of any Reorganization or Reconstruction of management in the last 1 
year of the issuer. 
(i) Capital structure relating to projects for which funds are proposed to be 
mobilized. 
(j) Capital grant for the proposed project(s) and the amount received in this regard. 
 
5. Objects of the issue: 
 
(a) The proceeds of  the proposed issue  shall be clearly  earmarked for a  
defined project or a set of projects along with the location of the project(s) 
and plant and machinery, technology, process, etc. 
 
(b) Where the issuer proposes to undertake more than one activity or project, 
such as diversification, modernization, or expansion, etc., the total project 
cost activity-wise or project wise, as the case may be. 
 
(c) Where the issuer is implementing the project(s) in a phased manner, the 
cost of each phase, including the phase, if any, which has already been 
implemented, shall be separately given. 
 
(d) An investment plan for the project components as well as phases thereof 
as well as financing thereof as approved by the local authority or the 
agency as the case may be. 
 
(e) Schedule of implementation of the project(s). 
 
(f) Benchmarks for commencement and completion of the project(s) 
including milestone dates for all components of the project. 
 
(g) Details and status of the regulatory approval (if required). 
 
(h) Expenses of the Issue: 
 
Expenses of the issue along with a break up for each item of expense, 
including details of the fees payable to/for separately as under (in terms 
of amount, as a percentage of total issue expenses and as a percentage of 
total issue size):

[Page 64]
Page - 64 - of 86 
 
 
(i) Lead manager(s) fees including underwriting commission 
(ii) Brokerage, selling commission and upload fees 
(iii) Registrars to the issue 
(iv) Legal Advisors 
(v) Advertising and marketing expenses 
(vi) Regulators including stock exchanges 
(vii) Printing and distribution of issue stationary 
(viii) Others, if any (to be specified). 
 
(i) If the project is re -financed, the following details shall be provided in 
respect of the lenders and existing loan(s) that are being refinanced, as 
per the specified format: 
(i) Type of existing loan 
(ii) Original Amount of loan / debt 
(iii)Existing lenders 
(iv) Existing rate of interest 
(v) Existing repayment schedule 
(vi) Purpose of existing debt 
(vii) Past restructuring, if any, on the said project 
(viii) Reason for re-finance. 
 
6. Tax Benefits:  
Any special tax benefits (under direct and indirect tax laws) for the issuer and its 
investors.  
7. Issue specific Information:  
(a) Issue/instrument specific regulations - relevant details (Relevant Act, RBI 
guidelines, etc.).  
(b) The detailed rating ration ale (s) adopted (not older than one year on the date of 
opening of the issue)/ credit rating letter issued (not older than one month on the 
date of opening of the issue) by the rating agencies shall be disclosed. Names of 
all the credit rating agencies from which credit rating including unaccepted rating 
has been obtained.  
(c)  Credit Enhancement Mechanisms if any, with complete details, if any.  
(d)  Names of all the recognised stock exchanges where the debt securities are 
proposed to be listed clearly indicating the designated stock exchange.  
(e) Additional interest to be paid, above the Coupon Rate, in case of default in 
payment of Interest and/or principal redemption on the due dates.  
(f)  Penal interest payable by the issuer in case of delay in listi ng of debt securities 
from the deemed date of allotment.  
(g) Debenture Redemption Reserve and such other reserve creation - relevant 
regulations as applicable.

[Page 65]
Page - 65 - of 86 
 
(h)  Application process.  
(i)  Procedure for deciding and adjusting payment dates (in response to days when 
payment cannot be made due to any reason such as sudden bank holiday.  
(j) ‘Terms of payments’ and procedure and time schedule for allotment and issue 
certificates/demat credit.  
(k)  How to apply, availability of application forms and letter of offer and mode of 
payment.  
(l)  Change in terms and conditions of municipal debt securities issued in past 5 years 
(i.e. change in coupon, maturity, call/put option etc.).  
(m) Procedure and time schedule for allotment and issue of municipal debt securities.  
(n) Details of escrow payment mechanism for the repayment of the interest/principal.  
8. Financial Information 
 
I. Following details as per the financial statements for past 3 years in 
tabular format: 
(a) Abridged Balance Sheet, Income and Expenditure and Receipts and 
Payments Accounts of the Issuer for the last three financial years with 
major heads: 
Provided issuers who are desirous of issuing debt securities on private 
placement basis and who are in existence for less than three years may 
disclose financial statements mentioned above for such period of 
existence. 
(b) Link and Quick Response (QR) code to the web page of the Issuer where 
the Abridged Balance Sheet, Income and Expenditure and Receipts and 
Payments Accounts of the constituent Municipalities and Issuer can be 
accessed should be given. 
(c) Link and Quick Response (QR) code to the web page of the Issuer where 
budget documents for the previous three years containing actual 
financial performance and/or revised estimates along with the details of 
related party transactions of  the constituent Municipalities can  be 
accessed should be given. 
(d) Financial Parameters of the constituent Municipalities and the Issuer 
for the last (three) years, separately: 
Key Financial Figures FY FY FY 
Revenue income    
Revenue expenditure (Excl. Interest)    
Operating revenue Surplus    
Interest expense    
Principal repayment (outside sinking Fund)    
Contribution to Sinking fund

[Page 66]
Page - 66 - of 86 
 
Revenue surplus    
Capital income    
Capital expense    
Capital surplus    
Overall surplus    
Deposits and Advances (net)    
Initial Cash / Bank balance    
Change in Cash / Bank balance    
Final Cash / Bank balance    
Loan repayment from sinking fund     
Initial Sinking fund balance    
Change in sinking fund    
Final sinking fund balance    
Total debt    
Ratio of Total Expenditure /Total Revenue    
Cash surplus / total revenue    
Ratio of Debt Service / Total Revenue    
 
Provided issuers who are desirous of  issuing debt securities on private 
placement basis and who are in existence for less than three years may 
disclose financial statements mentioned above for such period of 
existence. 
 
II. Details of top five revenue sources for the previous three years of the 
constituent Municipalities: 
 
 
 
III. Details of property tax collection of the constituent Municipalities: 
Revenue Receipt type Actual Actual Actual 
 FY FY FY 
XYZ 1    
XYZ 2    
XYZ 3    
XYZ 4    
XYZ 5    
Particul
ars 
Demand Raised Collections Overall 
Collecti
on ratio 
Curre
nt 
Collec
tion 
ratio 
Arrea
rs 
Curre
nt 
Tot
al 
Curre
nt 
Arr
e ar 
Tota
l

[Page 67]
Page - 67 - of 86 
 
 
 
IV. Borrowings of the Issuer and constituent Municipalities 
 
 Details of borrowings, as on the latest quarter end:- 
 
a. Details of Secured Loan Facilities:- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b. Details of Unsecured Loan Facilities:- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
c. Details of NCDs/Bonds: - 
 
Debenture/
 Bon
d Series 
Tenor/ 
Period 
of 
Maturity 
Coupo
n 
Amount Date of 
Allotmen
t 
Redem
ption 
Date/ 
Schedul
e 
Credi
t 
Ratin
g 
Secured
/ 
Unsecur
ed 
Security 
         
 
d. List of the Top ten Debenture Holders (as on ……) 
 
Sr. No. Name of
 Debenture 
Holders 
Amount 
   
 
Note: Top ten holders’ (in value terms, on cumulative basis for all outstanding 
debentures issues) details should be provided. 
 
FY         
FY         
FY         
Lender’
s Name 
Type 
of 
Facilit
y 
Amt 
Sanctioned 
Principal 
Amt 
outstandin
g 
Repaymen
t Date / 
Schedule 
Security 
      
Lender’
s Name 
Type 
of 
Facility 
Amt 
Sanctioned 
Principal 
Amt 
outstanding 
Repaymen
t Date / 
Schedule

[Page 68]
Page - 68 - of 86 
 
e. Details of Commercial Paper:- The total Face Value of Commercial Papers 
Outstanding as on the latest quarter end to be provided and its breakup in 
following table:- 
 
Maturity Date Amount Outstanding 
  
 
f. Details of Rest of Borrowings. 
g. Details of any outstanding borrowings and debt securities issued for 
consideration other than cash, whether in whole or part, at a premium or 
discount, or in pursuance of an option; 
 
V. Sufficient revenue generation and resources for timely servicing and redemption. 
 
VI. Estimated Scenarios of Asset Liability Mis-matches, efforts intended to 
resolve the same. 
 
9. Legal and Other Information: 
a. Pending litigations and material developments: 
 
 Pending Litigations involving the issuer/ its directors/ promoters/ 
subsidiaries/ constituent Municipalities: 
(i) All criminal proceedings; 
(ii) All actions by regulatory and statutory authorities; 
(iii) Disciplinary action including penalty imposed by SEBI or 
stock exchanges against the promoters during the previous five 
financial years including outstanding action; 
(iv) Claims related to direct and indirect taxes, in a consolidated 
manner, giving the number of cases and total amount; 
(v) Other pending litigation - As per the policy of materiality 
defined by the Board of Directors of the Issuer and disclosed in 
the offer document/placement memorandum. 
 
b. Outstanding dues to creditors of the issuer: 
 
(i) Based on the policy on materiality defined by the Board of 
Directors of the Issuer, details of creditors which include the 
consolidated number of creditors and the aggregate amount 
involved of the Issuer and constituent Municipalities shall be 
disclosed, o n the website of the Issuer with a web link and 
Quick Response (QR) code thereto;  
(ii) Consolidated information on outstanding dues to micro, small 
and medium enterprises, separately giving details of number of 
cases and amount involved shall be disclosed, on the website of 
the Issuer with a web link and Quick Response (QR) code 
thereto;

[Page 69]
Page - 69 - of 86 
 
(iii) Complete details about outstanding dues to material creditors 
along with the name and amount involved for each such 
material creditor shall be disclosed, on the website of the 
company with a web link and Quick Response (QR) code 
thereto. 
 
c. If any of the above mentioned litigation, material developments or 
dues to creditors etc., arise after the filing the draft offer document/ 
preliminary placement memorandum, the facts shall be 
appropriately incorporated in the offer document/placement 
memorandum. In case there are no such cases, a distinct negative 
statement is required to be made in this regard in the offer 
document/ placement memorandum. 
 
d. Material developments since the date of the last balance sheet of 
the issuer shall be incorporated separately in the offer document or 
placement memorandum. 
 
e. Statement containing particulars of dates of, and parties to all 
material contracts and agreements of the issuer: 
Provided that a recognized stock exchange may call for such 
further particulars or documents as it deems appropriate. 
 
f. Any material event/ development or change having implications 
on the financials/credit quality of the issuer (e.g. any material 
regulatory proceedings ag ainst the Issuer, resulting in material 
liabilities, restructuring event, etc.) at the time of the issue which 
may affect the issue or the investor’s decision to invest/ continue 
to invest in the municipal debt securities. 
 
g. Details of non -payment of  statutory dues of the Issuer and 
constituent Municipalities, if any. 
 
h. Details of all default/s and/or delay in payments of interest and 
principal of any kind of term loans, debt securities and other 
financial instrument issued by the Issuer, in the past 3 years. 
 
10. Government approvals: 
 
a. Investment approvals, letter of intent or industrial license from GoI, 
RBI, etc., as applicable for the issuer, and declaration of the Central 
Government, Reserve Bank of India or any regulatory  authority about 
the non-responsibility for financial soundness or correctness of the 
statements; 
b. All Government and other approvals which are material and necessary 
for carrying on the business and operations of the issuer and material 
subsidiaries. 
 
11. Undertaking by the issuer:

[Page 70]
Page - 70 - of 86 
 
The following undertaking by the issuer shall be given: 
(a) that it shall submit the documents disclosed in the offer document or 
placement memorandum to the Debenture Trustee in electronic form 
(soft copy). 
(b) that the complaints received in respect of the issue shall be attended to 
by the issuer expeditiously and satisfactorily. 
(c) that all steps for completion of the necessary formalities for listing and 
commencement of trading at all stock exchanges where the securities 
are to be listed are taken within the period specified by the Board. 
(d) Declaration signed by the Director(s) of the Issuer, if it is a body 
corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, stating that offer 
document/placement memorandum contains true, fair and adequate 
information to ena ble investors to make a well informed decision 
making regarding their investment in the proposed issue. 
(e) a statement to be given by  the Board of the Issuer or Standing 
Committee thereof that all monies received out of the issue shall be 
transferred to a separate bank account. 
(f) the details of all utilized and unutilised monies out of the monies 
collected in the previous issue made by  way of public offer shall be 
disclosed and continued to be disclosed in the balance sheet till the time 
any part of the proceeds of such previous issue remains unutilized 
indicating the purpose for which such monies have been utilized and 
the securities or other forms of financial assets in which such unutilized 
monies have been invested. 
 
12. Documents to be submitted 
(a) Copy of the resolution authorizing the borrowing and list of authorized 
signatories of the issuer. 
(b) Copy of the Trust deed, where the issuer is constituted as a trust. 
(c) Documents that have been executed or shall be executed in relation to 
the issue. 
 
13. Risk factors: 
(a) Risk factors shall be printed in a clear readable font (of minimum point 
ten size). 
(b) Risk factors shall be classified as those which are specific to the project 
and internal to the issuer and constituent Municipalities and those 
which are external and beyond the control of the issuer and constituent 
Municipalities. 
(c) Risk factors shall be determined on the basis of their materiality. 
In doing so, the following shall be considered: 
i. Some risks may not be material individually but 
may be material when considered collectively. 
ii. Some risks may have an impact which  is qualitative 
though not quantitative. 
iii. Some risks may not be material at present but may have 
a material impact in the future. 
(d) Each risk factor shall appear in the following manner: 
i. The risk as  envisaged by  the issuer and constituent

[Page 71]
Page - 71 - of 86 
 
Municipalities. 
ii. Proposals, if any, to address the risk. 
(e) Comprehensive Disclosure regarding the Risk Factors, including 
project risks, operational risks, credit risks, liquidity risks, etc. 
 
(f) Management perception of risk factors specific to the project.]

[Page 72]
Page - 72 - of 86 
 
73[Schedule IA 
[See regulations 6 and 14A] 
 
TERM SHEET 
 
Summary of Offer 
 
This section shall contain the summary of the following information, as applicable: 
 
(a) Primary business of the issuer, in not more than 100 words each; 
(b) Size of the issue; 
(c) Objects of the issue in a tabular format; 
(d) Audit qualifications along with the financial statements, if any 
(e) Summary table of pending litigation and a cross -reference to the section titled 
‘Pending Litigation and Material Developments''. 
(f) Cross-reference to the section titled 'Risk Factors' 
(g) Summary table of contingent liabilities and a cross-reference to contingent liabilities 
of the issuer as disclosed in the restated financial statements. 
(h) Summary of related party transactions for the previous three years and cross -
reference to related party transactions as disclosed in financial statements. 
(i) Details of escrow payment mechanism for the repayment of the interest/principal. 
 
Summary term sheet shall be provided which shall include following information (where 
relevant) pertaining to the issue of municipal debt securities (or a series thereof) and any other 
substantial information deemed relevant:- 
 Security name  
Issuer   
Type of instrument  
Seniority  
Mode of issue  
                                                           
73 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.

[Page 73]
Page - 73 - of 86 
 
Eligible investors   
Listing ( including name of the 
stock exchange(s) where it 
would be listed and the 
timeline for listing) 
  
Rating of the instrument  
Issue size   
Option to retain 
oversubscription (amount) 
  
Objects of the issue   
Details of the utilization of the 
proceeds 
  
Coupon rate   
Taxable/tax free  
Step up/step down coupon rate    
Coupon payment frequency   
Coupon payment dates  
Coupon type  
Coupon reset process 
(including rates, spread, 
effective date, interest rate cap 
and floor etc). 
  
Day count basis  
Interest on application money   
Tenor  
Redemption date  
Redemption amount   
Redemption premium 
/discount 
  
Issue price  
Discount at which the security 
is issued and the effective

[Page 74]
Page - 74 - of 86 
 
yield as a result of such 
discount. 
Put option date   
Put option price   
Call option date   
Call option price   
Put notification time  
Call notification time  
Face value 
 
Minimum application for 
municipal debt securities or 
multiples thereof 
 
Issue timing  
1. Issue opening date  
2. Issue closing date  
3. Pay -in date  
4. Deemed date of allotment   
Issuance mode of the 
instrument 
 
Trading mode of the 
instrument 
 
Settlement mode of the 
instrument 
 
Depository   
Business day convention   
Record date 
 
Transaction documents   
Conditions precedent to  
disbursement   
Condition subsequent to  
disbursement   
Events of default

[Page 75]
Page - 75 - of 86 
 
Provisions related to cross 
default clause 
 
Role and responsibilities of  
debenture trustee   
Governing law and 
jurisdiction   
]

[Page 76]
Page - 76 - of 86 
 
74[SCHEDULE II 
[See regulations 7 and 14] 
 
Form A 
 
FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE LEAD 
MANAGER (S)/MERCHANT BANKER ALONG WITH DRAFT OFFER 
DOCUMENT/ PRELIMINARY PLACEMENT MEMORANDUM 
 
To, 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
 
                                                           
74 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by 
Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019  w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution Sc hedule II read as 
follows,- 
“SCHEDULE II 
[See Regulation 7 (10)] 
FORMAT FOR DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE AT THE TIME OF FILING THE OFFER 
DOCUMENT BY AN ISSUER OR A CORPORATE MUNICIPAL ENTITY WITH REGISTRAR 
OF COMPANIES AND PRIOR TO THE OPENING OF THE ISSUE  
 
To, 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________ 
 
1.We confirm that neither the issuer nor its promoters or directors (in case of corporate municipal entity), 
have been prohibited from accessing the capital market under any order or direction passed by the Board. 
We also confirm that none of the intermediaries named in the offer document have been debarred from 
functioning by any regulatory authority. 
 
2. We confirm that all the material  disclosures in respect of the issuer have been made in the offer 
document and certify that any material development in the issue or relating to the issue up to the 
commencement of listing and trading of the shares offered through this issue shall be infor med through 
public notices/ advertisements in all those newspapers in which pre -issue advertisement and 
advertisement for opening or closure of the issue have been given. 
3. We confirm that the offer document contains all disclosures as specified in the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) Regulations, 2015.  
4. We also confirm that all relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, if applicable, Securities 
Contracts, (Regulation) Act, 1956, Securi ties and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and the Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines, Circulars issued thereunder are complied with.  
 
We confirm that all comments/ complaints received on the draft offer document filed on the website of 
________ (designated stock exchange) have been suitably addressed. 
 
PLACE 
DATE:                                                          LEAD MERCHANT BANKER (S)”

[Page 77]
Page - 77 - of 86 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
SUB.: ISSUE OF _________________ BY ________________(Issuer) 
 
We CONFIRM that: 
(1) We have examined documents pertaining to the said issue and other relevant documents. 
 
(2) On the basis of such examination and discussions with the Issuer, its directors and other 
officers, other agencies, and independent verification of the statements concerning the objects 
of the issue, contents of the documents and other papers furnished by the issuer: 
(a) the draft offer document/ preliminary placement memorandum filed with the Board 
is in conformity with the documents, materials and papers which are material to the 
issue; 
(b) all material legal requirements relating to the issue as specified by the Board, the 
Central Government and any other competent authority in this behalf have been duly 
complied with; and 
(c) the material disclosures made in the draft offer document/preliminary placement 
memorandum are true and adequate to enable  the investors to make a well informed 
decision as to the investment in the proposed issue and such disclosures are in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013, these regulations and 
other applicable legal requirements. 
 
(3) All intermediaries named in the draft offer document/ preliminary placement memorandum 
are registered with the Board and that till date, such registration is valid and that none of these 
intermediaries have been debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority. 
 
(4) Necessary arrangements shall be made to ensure that the monies received pursuant to the 
issue are credited or transferred to in a separate bank account. 
 
(5) We shall comply with the provisions pertaining to advertisements in terms of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) Regulations, 
2015.

[Page 78]
Page - 78 - of 86 
 
(6) The offer document or placement memorandum registered with the Registrar of Companies 
and filed with the designated stock exchange on …. (date) was suitably updated under 
intimation to the Board and that the said offer document or placement memorandum contains 
all the material disclosures in respect of the issuer as on the said date. 
 
(7) Agreements have been entered into with the depositories for dematerialis ation of the 
securities of the issuer. 
 
We enclose a note explaining the process of due diligence that has been exercised by us for the 
period disclosed in the draft offer document/preliminary placement memorandum in 
accordance with applicable laws. 
 
We enclose a checklist confirming regulation-wise compliance with the applicable provisions 
of these regulations, containing details such as the regulation number, its text, the status of 
compliance, page number of the draft offer document/ preliminary placem ent memorandum 
where the regulation has been complied with and our comments, if any. 
 
 
PLACE:                                  (SIGNATURE WITH OFFICIAL SEAL) 
DATE:                                                   LEAD MANAGER/MERCHANT BANKER 
 
Form B 
 
FORMAT FOR DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE AT THE TIME OF FILING THE 
OFFER DOCUMENT OR PLACEMENT MEMORANDUM BY LEAD 
MANAGER/MERCHANT BANKER PRIOR TO THE OPENING OF THE ISSUE 
 
To, 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________

[Page 79]
Page - 79 - of 86 
 
 
1. We CONFIRM that neither the issuer nor its promoters or directors or  other officers have 
been prohibited from accessing the capital market under any order or direction passed by the 
Board. We also confirm that no ne of the intermediaries named in the offer document or 
placement memorandum have been debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority. 
 
2. We CONFIRM that all the material disclosures in respect of the issuer have been made in 
the offer document and  certify that any material development relating to the issue up to the 
commencement of listing and trading of the municipal debt securities offered through this issue 
shall be informed through public notices/ advertisements in all those newspapers in which pre-
issue advertisement and advertisement for opening or closure of the issue have been given. 
 
3. We CONFIRM that the offer document or placement memorandum contains all disclosures 
as specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Li sting of Municipal 
Debt Securities) Regulations, 2015. 
 
4. We CONFIRM that all relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, if applicable, 
Securities Contracts, (Regulation) Act, 1956, Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 and the Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Circulars issued thereunder have been complied 
with.  
 
5. We CONFIRM that all comments/ complaints received on the draft offer document/ 
preliminary placement memorandum filed with the ________ (designated stock exchange) 
have been suitably addressed. 
 
 
 
PLACE:                                   (SIGNATURE WITH OFFICIAL SEAL) 
DATE:                                                 LEAD MANAGER /MERCHANT BANKER 
  
Form C

[Page 80]
Page - 80 - of 86 
 
FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN IN THE EVENT OF 
DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL EVENTS AFTER THE FILING OF THE OFFER 
DOCUMENT/PLACEMENT MEMORANDUM BY THE LEAD 
MANAGER(S)/MERCHANT BANKER(S) 
 
To, 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
SUB.: ISSUE OF _________________ BY ________________(Issuer) 
 
We CONFIRM that all material disclosures in respect of the issue as on date have been made 
through the offer document or placement memorandum registered with the Registrar of 
Companies and filed with the designated stock exchange on ….. (date). 
 
 
PLACE:                                 (SIGNATURE WITH OFFICIAL SEAL) 
DATE:                                                 LEAD MANAGER/MERCHANT BANKER]

[Page 81]
Page - 81 - of 86 
 
75[SCHEDULE III 
[See regulations 7 and 14] 
 
FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE 
DEBENTURE TRUSTEE BEFORE OPENING OF THE ISSUE 
 
To, 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
SUB.: ISSUE OF _________________ BY ________________(Issuer) 
 
We, the Debenture Trustee (s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows: 
 
                                                           
75 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by 
Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019  w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution Schedule III read as 
follows,- 
“SCHEDULE III 
[See Regulation 7 (11)] 
 
FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE DEBENTURE 
TRUSTEE BEFORE OPENING OF THE ISSUE 
 
To, 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________________Ltd (Corporate 
Municipal Entity) 
 
We, the Debenture Trustee (s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows:  
(1) We have examined documents pertaining to the said issue and other such relevant documents.  
(2) On the basis of such examination and of the discussions with the issuer, its Mayor/Deputy Mayor 
/Directors and other officers, other agencies and of independent verificat ion of the various relevant 
documents, 
WE CONFIRM that: 
(a) The issuer has made adequate provisions for and/or has taken steps to provide for adequate 
security for the debt securities to be issued. 
(b) The issuer has obtained the permissions / consents nec essary for creating security on the said 
property (ies) / receivables. 
(c) The issuer has made all the relevant disclosures about the security and also its continued 
obligations towards the holders of debt securities. 
We have satisfied ourselves about the ability of the issuer to service the debt securities. 
 
PLACE 
DATE:                         DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE WITH HIS SEAL”

[Page 82]
Page - 82 - of 86 
 
(1) We have examined documents pertaining to the said issue and other relevant documents. 
 
(2) On the basis of such examination and discussions with the issuer, its Mayor/Deputy Mayor 
/Directors and other officers, other agencies and independent verif ication of the various 
relevant documents,- 
 
(a) WE CONFIRM that the issuer has made adequate provisions regarding escrow payment 
mechanism for repayment of debt obligations, and 
 
(b) We have satisfied ourselves about the ability of the issuer to service the debt securities. 
 
 
PLACE:                               (SIGNATURE WITH OFFICIAL SEAL) 
DATE:                                DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE]

[Page 83]
Page - 83 - of 86 
 
SCHEDULE  IV 
          [See Regulation 9 (1)] 
 
FORMAT OF ISSUE ADVERTISEMENTS FOR PUBLIC ISSUES 
This is an advertisement for information purposes 
76[_________ _________ Municipality or ______________Name of the Issuer]  
 
(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Relevant State Act or the Companies 
Act  as __________________ 
and subsequently renamed ______________ on __________) 
Registered Office: _____________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 
Corporate Office: _____________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 
e-mail: _____________ Website: _____________________________ 
 
THE ISSUE 
Public issue of ___________ debt securities of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ 
(Summary Details of Coupon, Redemption, etc shall be disclosed) 
 
MAYOR/ DEPUTY MAYOR /COMMISSIONER/PROMOTERS 
XXXX 
 
PROPOSED LISTING 
Names of Stock Exchanges 
 
MERCHANT BANKERS 
(Names) 
 
COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF THE ISSUER 
Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address 
 
                                                           
76 The words and symbols, “_________ _________ Municipal Corporation or ______________ Ltd (or 
Corporate Municipal Entity)” substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 27.09.2019.

[Page 84]
Page - 84 - of 86 
 
CREDIT RATING 
(The Rating Obtained shall be disclosed prominently along with the meaning of the same) 
 
DEBENTURE TRUSTEES 
(Names) 
 
AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS 
Names of Issuer, Lead Managers, etc. (Addresses optional) 
 
AVAILABILITY OF OFFER DOCUMENT 
Investors are advised to refer to the offer document, and the risk factors contained therein, 
before applying in the issue. Full copy of the offer document is available on websites of 
issuer / lead manager(s) / Stock Exchange(s) on www.__________ 
 
                                                       ISSUE OPENS ON: 
                                                       ISSUE CLOSES ON: 
Issued by 
Directors of Issuer

[Page 85]
Page - 85 - of 86 
 
77[SCHEDULE V 
[See sub-regulation (1) of regulation 23] 
Periodic Disclosures to be made by Issuers 
 
i. Material adverse changes affecting ability to service bonds. 
ii. Proposal for pre-payment, valuation of bond in case of sale/purchase before maturity, etc. 
iii. Important ratios like debt equity ratio, debt service coverage ratio, interest service coverage 
ratio, etc. 
iv. Half yearly return on servicing of bonds, credit enhancement facilities and investors grievances 
and redressal.] 
 
 
 
U. K. SINHA 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
 
 
                                                           
77 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by 
Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019  w.e.f. 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution Schedule V read as 
follows,- 
“SCHEDULE  V 
[See Regulation 23 (1)] 
Periodic Disclosures to be made by Issuers: 
1. The issuer shall file its Annual Audited financial results, forthwith, with the stock exchange and 
debenture trustee, wherever applicable. 
2. Further, following periodic disclosures shall be made by the Issuer on half yearly basis to the 
stock exchange and debenture trustee, wherever applicable. 
i. Utilization of funds for the projects – Half yearly certification of Chartered Accountant on 
Utilizations of the issue proceeds for execution of the projects stated in the offer document. 
ii. A report containing status of implementation of project(s), whi ch is being financed 
alongwith reasons for delay, if any. 
iii. Project development - Details with respect to the development of the Project along with 
certifications from the Project Engineer should be furnished to the bond trustee, Rating 
Agencies and stock exchanges on Half Yearly Basis and should be publicly disseminated.  
iv. Material adverse changes affecting ability to service bonds. 
v. Proposal for pre-payment, valuation of bond in case of sale/purchase before maturity etc. 
vi. Important ratios like Debt Equity Rati o, Debt Service Coverage Ratio, Interest Service 
Coverage Ratio etc. 
vii. Half Yearly return on servicing of bonds, maintenance of Asset Cover, Credit enhancement 
facilities and Investors Grievances &Redressal 
viii. A CA/Bank certificate for timely servicing of bonds.”

[Page 86]
Page - 86 - of 86 
 
 
Note: 
1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by 
Municipalities) Regulations, 2015 were published in the Gazette of India on July 15, 2015 
vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2015-16/006. 
 
2. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities by 
Municipalities) Regulations, 2015 were subsequently amended on - 
 
a. February 15, 2017 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing 
of Debt Securities by Municipalities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017 published in 
the Official Gazette vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/032. 
 
b. August 08, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 published in the 
Official Gazette vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/146. 
 
c. July 08, 2026 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Municipal Debt Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026  published in the 
Official Gazette vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2026/305.
