[Page 1]
Page 1 of 37 
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (FOREIGN PORTFOLIO 
INVESTORS) REGULATIONS, 2019 
 
(Amended upto July 07, 2026) 
No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2019/36 - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
Section 30 read with  sub section  (1)  of  Section  11,  clause  (ba)  of  sub -section  (2)  of 
Section  11  and  sub-sections (1)  and  (1A)  of  Section 12  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  and  under  Section  25  of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,    the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  hereby,  makes  the  following  regul ations, to  
provide the  framework  for  registration  and  procedures  with  regard  to  foreign  investors  
who propose to make portfolio investment in India, namely,— 
 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement.  
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019.  
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
 
Definitions. 
 2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions and variations shall 
be construed accordingly,—  
(a)  “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992;  
(b) “appropriately regul ated” entity means an entity which is regulated by the securities 
market regulator or the banking regulator of home jurisdiction or otherwise, in the same 
capacity in which it proposes to make investments in India;  
(c)  “Bilateral Memorandum of Understanding with the Board” shall mean a bilateral 
Memorandum of Understanding between the Board and any authority outside India that  
provides for information sharing arrangement as specified under clause (ib) of sub-section 
(2) of Section 11 of the Act;  
(d) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of 
the Act;  
(e) "certificate" means a certificate of registration granted to a foreign portfolio investor by 
the designated depository participant on behalf of the Board under these regulations;

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 37 
 
(f) “control” includes the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the 
management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually or 
in concert, directly or indirectly, including by virtue of shareholding or management rights 
or shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner; 
(g) “custodian” means a person registered under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Custodian) Regulations, 1996;  
(h) "designated bank" means a scheduled bank in I ndia, which has been authorised by the 
Reserve Bank of India to act as a banker to foreign portfolio investors;  
(i) “designated depository participant” means a person who has been approved by the Board 
under Chapter III of these regulations;  
(j) “foreign portfolio investor” means a person who has been registered under Chapter II of 
these regulations and shall be deemed to be an intermediary in terms of the provisions of 
the Act; 
(k)  "Form" means an application form for obtaining registration as foreign portfolio investor 
as notified by the Government of India or as specified by the Board;  
(l) "International Financial Services Centre" or "IFSC" shall have the same meaning as 
assigned to it in clause (q) of section 2 of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005; 
(m)  “investment manager” shall include an entity performing the role of investment 
management or any equivalent role, including trustee(s); 
(n) “non-resident Indian” and “overseas citizen of India” shall have the same meaning as 
assigned to such terms under 1[rule 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management (Non -debt 
Instruments) Rules, 2019] made under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999;  
(o) "offshore derivative instrument" means any instrument, by whatever name called, which 
is issued overseas by a foreign portfolio investor against securities held by it in India , as 
its underlying;  
2[(p)]  “resident Indian” shall have the same meaning assigned to the term “person resident in 
India” under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999; 
3[(q)] "Schedule" means a Schedule to these regulations;  
4[(r) “Single Window Automatic and Generalised Access for Trusted Foreign Investor” or 
“SWAGAT-FI” shall, subject to conditions as may be specified by the Board from time 
to time, include the following: 
                                                           
1 Substituted for “regulation 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person 
Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2017” by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulation, 
2019, w.e.f. 19-12-2019. 
2 Substituted for “ (q)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 1-06-2026. 
3 Substituted for “ (r)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 1-06-2026. 
4 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 1-06-2026.

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 37 
 
 (i) Government and G overnment related investors as provided under sub -clause (i) of 
clause (a) of regulation 5 of these regulations;  
(ii) Public retail funds as defined in the Explanation clause under sub -regulation (4) of 
regulation 22 of these regulations;] 
(s) ‘stock exch ange’ means a recognised stock exchange under the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956.  
(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations, but defined in the Act or 
the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, the Companies Act, 201 3, the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996 or the rules and regulations made 
thereunder shall have the same meaning respectively assigned to them in those Acts or rules or 
regulations or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto.  
 
CHAPTER II 
REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN PORTFOLIO INVESTORS 
 
Application for grant of certificate as a foreign portfolio investor.  
3. (1) No person shall buy, sell or otherwise deal in securities as a foreign portfolio investor 
unless it has obtained a certificate granted by a designated depository participant on behalf of 
the Board.  
Explanation – An offshore fund floated by an asset management company that has received 
no-objection certificate in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
Funds) Regulations, 1996, shall be required to obtain registration as a foreign portfolio 
investor, for investment in securities in India, within one hundred and eighty days from the 
date of notification of these regulations. 
(2) An application for the grant of certificate as a foreign portfolio investor shall be made to a 
designated depository participant in  the Form 5[and manner] specified by the Government or 
the Board from time to time and shall be supported by 6[***] 7[any documents in the manner 
specified by the Board from time to time].  
 
Eligibility criteria of foreign portfolio investor.  
4 A designated depository participant shall consider an application for grant of certificate of 
registration as a foreign portfolio investor if the applicant satisfies the following conditions 
namely: -   
                                                           
5 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2023 w.e.f.15-03-2023. 
6 The words ‘the fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule and ’ omitted by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 03-01-2027.  
7 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2023 w.e.f.15-03-2023.

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 37 
 
(a) the applicant is not a resident Indian;  
(b) the applicant is not a non-resident Indian or an overseas citizen of India; 
8[(c) non-resident Indians or overseas citizens of India or resident Indian individuals may 
be constituents of the applicant 9[subject to the following conditions: 
(i) the contribution of a single non -resident Indian or overseas citizen of India or 
resident Indian individual shall be below twenty -five percent of the total 
contribution in the corpus of the applicant; 
(ii) the aggregate contribution of non -resident Indians, overseas citizens of India 
and resident Indian individuals in the corpus of the applicant shall be below fifty 
percent of the total contribution in the corpus of the applicant; 
(iii) the contribution of resident Indian individuals shall be made through the 
Liberalised Remittance Scheme notified by the Reserve Bank of India and shall 
be in global funds whose Indian exposure is less than fifty percent; 
(iv) the non -resident Indians, overseas citizens of India and resident Indian 
individuals shall not be in control of the applicant; and 
(v) any other conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
10[Provided that the provisions of sub-clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) of clause (c) shall not be 
applicable to foreign portfolio investor who invests only in  Government Securities, in 
accordance with the conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
11[Provided further that a mutual fund registered under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Mutual Fund s) Regulations, 1996 may also be co nstituent of the 
applicant, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to 
time:] 
Provided 12[further] that resident Indian other than individuals, may also be constituents 
of the applicant, subject to the following conditions, namely –  
(i) such resident Indian, other than individuals, is an eligible fund manager of the 
applicant, as provided under sub -section (4) of section 9A of the Income Tax 
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961); and 
                                                           
8 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 03-08-2021. Prior of the substitution, clause (c) read as under –   “(c) non-resident Indians 
or overseas citizens of India or resident Indian individuals can be constituents of the applicant provided they meet 
conditions specified by the Board from time to time;” 
9 Substituted for “provided they meet the conditions specified by the Board from time to time:” by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 26 -
06-2024. 
10 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025, w.e.f. 08-02-2026. 
11 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 3-12-2025. 
12 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025, w.e.f. 08-02-2026.

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 37 
 
(ii) the applicant is an eligible investment fund as provided under sub-section (3) of 
section 9A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) which has been granted 
approval under the Income Tax Rules, 196213[:]] 
14[Provided further that resident Indian, other than individuals, may also be constituents 
of the applicant, subject to the following conditions, namely – 
(i) the applicant is an Alternative Investment Fund 15[or a Retail Scheme] setup in 
the International Financial Services Centres and regulated by the International 
Financial Services Centres Authority;  
(ii) such resident Indian, other than individuals, is a 16[fund management entity or 
its associate] of the applicant; and 
(iii) the contribution of such resident Indian, other than individuals, shall be up to- 
(a) 17[10% of the corpus of the applicant in case the applicant is an Alternative 
Investment Fund; or]   
(b) 18[10% of the Assets under Management in case the applicant is a Retail 
scheme;]] 
19[Explanation – ‘fund management entity’ and ‘associate’ shall have the 
meaning as provided under International Financial Services Centres Authority 
(Fund Management) Regulations, 2025 as amended from time to time.] 
20[Provided further that the provisions of sub -clause (ii) of clause (c) shall not be 
applicable to an applicant, regulated by the International Financial Services Centres 
Authority and based in the International Financial Services Centres in India and subject 
to conditions as may be specified by the Board: 
21[Provided further that the provisions of sub -clause (ii) of clause (c) shall not be 
applicable to a SWAGAT-FI.] 
                                                           
13 Substituted for “;” by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) Regulation, 2021, w.e.f. 26-
10-2021. 
14 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 26-10-2021. 
15 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 3-12-2025. 
16 Substituted for “ Sponsor or Manager ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Foreign Portfolio 
Investors) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 3-12-2025. 
17 Substituted for “2.5% of the corpus of the applicant or US $ 7,50,000 (whichever is lower), in case the applicant 
is a Category I or Category II Alternative Investment  Fund” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 3-12-2025. 
18 Substituted for “5% of the corpus of the applicant or US $ 1.5 million (whichever is lower), in case the applicant 
is a Category III Alternative Investment Fund” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio 
Investors) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 3-12-2025. 
19 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 3-12-2025. 
20 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 26-06-2024. 
21 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 1-06-2026.

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 37 
 
Provided further that the existing exemptions specified by the Board in relation to the  
conditions under sub-clauses (i) to (iv) of clause (c) of this regulation as on the date of 
notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 shall continue to remain in force.] 
(d) the applicant is a resident of the country whose securities market regulator is a signatory 
to the International Organization of Securities Commission’s Multilateral 
Memorandum of Understanding (Appendix A Signatories) or a signatory to the bilateral 
Memorandum of Understanding with the Board: 
Provided that an applicant being Government or Government related investor shall be 
considered as eligible for registration, if such applicant is a resident in the country as 
may be approved by the Government of India; 
(e) the applicant being a bank is a resident of a country whose central bank is a member of 
Bank for International Settlements: 
Provided that a central bank applicant need not be a member of Bank for International 
Settlements; 
(f) the applicant or its underlying investors contributing 22[more than the threshold 
prescribed under sub -rule (3) of rule 9 of the Prevention of Money -laundering 
(Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005 ] in the corpus of the applicant or identified on 
the basis of control, shall not be the person(s) mentioned in the Sanctions List notified 
from time to time by the United Nations Security Council and is not a resident in the 
country identified in the public statement of Financial Action Task Force as –   
(i) a jurisdiction having a strategic  Anti-Money Laundering or Combating the 
Financing of Terrorism deficiencies to which counter measures apply; or  
(ii) a jurisdiction that has not made sufficient progress in addressing the deficiencies or 
has not committed to an action plan developed with the Financial Action Task Force to 
address the deficiencies;  
(g) the applicant is a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in Schedule II of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; 
(h) any other criteria specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that clause (a), (d) and (e) shall not apply to an applicant incorporated or 
established in an International Financial Services Centre. 
 
Categories of foreign portfolio investor.  
5. An applicant seeking registration as a foreign portfolio investor  may apply in one of the 
categories mentioned hereunder or any other category as may be specified by the Board from 
time to time –   
                                                           
22 Substituted for the words “twenty-five per cent or more” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 10-08-2023.

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 37 
 
(a) "Category I foreign portfolio investor" which shall include –  
(i) Government and Government related investors such as central banks, sovereign 
wealth funds, international or multilateral organizations or agencies  including 
entities controlled or at least 75% directly or indirectly owned by such 
Government and Government related investor(s); 
(ii) Pension funds and university funds;  
(iii)Appropriately regulated entities such as insurance or reinsurance entities, banks, 
asset management companies, investment managers , inv estment advisors, 
portfolio managers, broker dealers and swap dealers; 
(iv)  Entities from the Financial Action Task Force member countries 23[, or from 
any country specified by the Central Government by an order or by way of an 
agreement or treaty with other sovereign Governments,] which are –  
I. appropriately regulated funds; 
II. unregulated funds whose investment manager is appropriately regulated 
and registered as a Category I foreign portfolio investor: 
Provided that the investment manager undertakes the responsibility of 
all the acts of commission or omission of such unregulated fund; 
III. university related endowments of such universities that have  been in 
existence for more than five years; 
(v) An entity (A) whose investment manager is from  the Financial Action Task 
Force member country  and such an investment manager is registered as a 
Category I foreign portfolio investor ; or (B) which is at least seventy-five per 
cent owned, directly or indirectly by an other entity, eligible under sub -clause 
(ii), (iii) and (iv) of clause (a) of this regulation and such an eligible entity is 
from a Financial Action Task Force member country: 
Provided that such an investment manager or eligible entity undertakes the 
responsibility of all the acts of commission or omission of the applicants seeking 
registration under this sub-clause. 
(b) "Category II foreign portfolio investor" shall include all the investors not eligible under 
Category I foreign portfolio investors such as –  
(i) appropriately regulated funds not eligible as Category -I foreign portfolio 
investor; 
(ii) endowments and foundations; 
(iii) charitable organisations; 
(iv) corporate bodies; 
                                                           
23 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 37 
 
(v) family offices; 
(vi) Individuals; 
(vii) appropriately regulated entities investing on behalf of their client, as per 
conditions specified by the Board from time to time; 
(viii) Unregulated funds in the form of limited partnership and trusts;   
Explanation: An applicant incorporated or established in an International Financial Services 
Centre shall be deemed to be appropriately regulated. 
 
 
Furnishing of information, and personal representation.  
6.(1) The Board or the designated depository participant may require the applicant to furnish 
such further information or clarification as may be considered necessary for the grant of the 
certificate of registration as a foreign portfolio investor.  
(2) The applicant or his authorised representative shall, if so required by the Board or the 
designated depository participant, appear before them for personal representation in connection 
with the grant of a certificate.  
 
Certificate of registration  
7.(1) The designated depository participant shall on behalf of the Board grant the certificate of 
registration, bearing registration number generated by 24[the Board], as specified in the First 
Schedule to an applicant if it is satisfied that the applicant is eligible and fulfils the requirements 
as specified in these regulations.  
(2) The designated depository participant shall endeavour to dispose of the application for grant 
of certificate of registration as soon as possible but not later than thirty days after receipt of 
application by the designated depository participant , or after the information called for under 
regulation 6 has been furnished; whichever is later.  
(3) Upon grant of c ertificate of registration to the applicant, the designated depository 
participant shall remit the fees, as specified in Part A of the Second Schedule, received from 
the applicant to the Board.  
 (4) If an applicant seeking registration as a foreign portfo lio investor has any grievance with 
respect to its application or if the designated depository participant has any question in respect 
of interpretation of any provision of this regulation, it may approach the Board for appropriate 
instructions.  
 (5) The foreign portfolio investor need s to have a valid registration as long as it is holding 
securities or derivatives in India:    
                                                           
24 Substituted for “National Securities Depositories Limited” by the Securities and Exchange Board of I ndia 
(Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14 -01-2022.

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 37 
 
25[Provided that a foreign portfolio investor, whose certificate of registration is not valid as on 
the date of commencement of the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio 
Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 202 4 and is holding securities or derivatives in India, 
shall be allowed to sell such securities or wind up their open position in derivatives in India 
within three hundred and sixty days from the date of commencement of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 202 4 , in 
the manner specified by the Board.] 
26[(6) A foreign portfolio investor shall pa y the registration fees, as provided in Part A of the 
Second Schedule for every block of three years, before the beginning of such block: 
Provided that the foreign portfolio investor shall be considered to have paid the registration 
fees in accordance with  this sub-regulation, if it pays the registration fees along with the late 
fee, as provided in Part A of the Second Schedule, within a period of thirty days from the date 
of expiry of the preceding block: 
Provided further that if the foreign portfolio investor does not pay the required registration fee 
and the late fee as may be applicable and continues to hold securities or derivatives in India, it 
shall be allowed to sell such securities or wind up their open position in derivatives in India 
within three hundred and sixty days from the date of expiry of thirty days as provided above, 
under such terms and conditions and in such manner as may be specified by the Board, from 
time to time. 
27[Provided further that a SWAGAT-FI shall pay the registration fees, as provided in Part A of 
the Second Schedule for every block of ten years, before the beginning of such block.] 
(7) The additional period granted under sub -regulations (5) and (6) of this regulation shall be 
without prejudice to any action as may be init iated by the Board in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act and the regulations framed thereunder. 
(8) A foreign portfolio investor whose certificate of registration is not valid and has not sold 
off the securities or wound up their open position in de rivatives in India as per the provisions 
of these regulations shall be deemed to have written off the securities in such manner as may 
be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
Application to conform to the requirements  
8 (1) An application for grant of certificate of registration to act as a foreign portfolio investor, 
which is not complete in all respects or is false or misleading in any material particular or does 
                                                           
25 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 03-06-2024. Prior to substitution, the proviso read as under:  
“Provided that a foreign portfolio investor whose registration is not valid and who is holding securities or 
derivatives in India shall be allowed to sell such securities or wind up their open position in derivatives within 
one year from the date of publication of these regulations.”. 
26 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 03-06-2024. 
27 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 1-06-2026.

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 37 
 
not satisfy the requirements specified in these regulations shall be deemed to be def icient and 
liable to be rejected by the designated depository participant: 
Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity of being heard and to remove the deficiency, within the time as specified by the 
designated depository participant.  
(2) The decision to reject the application shall be communicated by the designated depository 
participant to the applicant in writing indicating the grounds for rejection of the application.  
(3) The applicant, wh o is aggrieved by the decision of the designated depository participant 
under sub -regulation (1) may, within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of 
communication under sub-regulation (2), apply to the Board for reconsideration of the decision 
of the designated depository participant: 
Provided that such application for reconsideration shall not be considered by the Board where 
the rejection was on account of technical reasons such as non -submission of complete 
information, documents, including non-payment of specified fees.  
(4) The Board shall, as soon as possible, after considering  the submissions made in the 
application seeking reconsideration made under sub -regulation (3) and after giving a 
reasonable opportunity of being heard, communicate its decision in writing to the applicant. 
 
 Suspension, cancellation or surrender of certificate.  
9. (1) Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Act, these regulations and the 
circulars issued thereunder, the registration granted by the designated depository participant   
on behalf of the Board under these regulations shall be permanent unless suspended or 
cancelled by the Board or surrendered by the foreign portfolio investor.  
(2) The suspension and cancellation of the certificate of registration granted by the Board under 
these regulations, shall be dealt with in the manner as provided in Chapter V of the Sec urities 
and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.  
(3) When the foreign portfolio investor fails to  pay the required fees for continuance of 
registration within the specified due date and such foreign portfolio investor does not have any 
cash or security or derivative position in India, such foreign portfolio investor shall be deemed 
to have applied for surrender of its registration  and the designated depository participant of 
such foreign portfolio investor shall process the surrender after obtaining the approval from the 
Board. 
28[Explanation: For the purpose of this sub-regulation, a foreign portfolio investor who has paid 
the registration fee and the late fee in accordance with sub -regulation (6) of regulation 7 shall 
be considered to have paid the required fees within the specified due date.] 
                                                           
28 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 03-06-2024.

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 37 
 
(4) Any foreign portfolio investor desirous of surrendering the certificate of registration may 
request for such surrender to the designated depository participant who shall accept the 
surrender of the certificate of registration after obtaining approval from the Board. 
 (5) While accepting the surrender of registration, the designated depository participant may 
impose such conditions as may be specified by the Board.  
 
CHAPTER III 
APPROVAL OF DESIGNATED DEPOSITORY PARTICIPANT 
 
Application to act as a designated depository participant. 
10. (1) No person shall act as a designated depository participant unless it has obtained the 
approval of the Board.  
(2) An application for approval to act as a designated depository participant shall be made to 
the Board through a depository with which the applicant has an agreement to act as a participant 
and shall be accompanied by the application fee specified in Part B of the Second Schedule 
which shall be paid in the manner specified therein.  
(3) The depository shall forward the application to the Board, as early as possible, but not later 
than thirty days from the date of its receipt by the depository, along with its recommendations 
and after certifying that the participant has complied with the eligibility criteria as provided for 
in these regulations.  
 
Eligibility criteria of designated depository participant.   
11. (1) The Board shall not consider an application fo r the grant of approval as designated 
depository participant unless the applicant satisfies the following conditions,   
(a) the applicant is a registered depository participant under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996;  
(b) the applicant is a registered Custodian under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Custodian) Regulations, 1996;  
(c) the applicant is an Authorised Dealer Category-1 bank authorised by the Reserve Bank 
of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999;  
(d) the applicant has a multinational presence , either through its branches or through 
agency relationships with overseas intermediaries regulated in their respective home 
jurisdictions;  
(e) the applicant has systems and procedures to c omply with the requirements of the 
Financial Action Task Force Standards, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, 
Rules prescribed thereunder and the circulars issued from time to time by the Board;

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 37 
 
(f) the applicant is a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in Schedule II of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; and  
(g) any other criteria as may be specified by the Board from time to time.  
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, the Board may 
consider an application from an entity, regulated in India or in its home jurisdiction, for grant 
of approval to act as designated depository participant, upon being satisfied that the applicant 
has sufficient experience in providing custodial services and that the grant of such approval is 
in the interest of the development of the securities market:  
Provided that such entity   shall be registered with the Board as a participant  and custodian, 
and shall have a tie up with Authorised Dealer Category-1 bank.  
 
Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation.  
12. (1) The Board may require the applicant or the depository of which the applicant is  a 
participant to furnish such further information or clarification as may be considered necessary 
for grant of approval to act as a designated depository participant.  
(2) The applicant or its authorised representative shall, if so required by the Board, appear 
before it for personal representation in connection with the grant of approval.  
 
Procedure for granting of approval to designated depository participant.  
13. (1) After considering the application made under regulation 1 0 of these regulations , the 
Board may grant approval to the applicant, upon being satisfied that the applicant is eligible 
and fulfils the requirements as specified in these regulations including payment of fees as 
specified in Part B of Second Schedule.  
(2) The Board shall dispose of the application for grant of approval as soon as possible but not 
later than thirty days after receipt of application by the Board or, after all the information called 
for under regulation 12 has been furnished, whichever is later.  
 
Application to conform to the requirements.  
14. An application for grant of approval to act as designated depository participant which is 
not complete in all respects or is false or misleading in any material particular, shall be deemed 
to be deficient and shall be liable to be rejected by the Board:  
Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity to remove the deficiency, within the time as specified by the Board. 
 
Procedure where approval is not granted.

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 37 
 
15. (1) Where an application for grant of an approval does not satisfy the requirements specified 
in these regulations, the Board may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable 
opportunity of being heard.  
(2) The decision to reject the application shall be communicated by the Board to the applicant 
in writing stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.  
(3) The applicant, who is aggrieved by the decision of the Board under sub-regulation (1) may, 
within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of communication under sub -regulation 
(2), apply to the Board for reconsideration of its decision.  
(4) The Board shall, as soon as possible, in light of the submissions made in the application for 
reconsideration made under sub -regulation (3) and after giving a reasonable opportunity of 
being heard, convey its decision in writing to the applicant.  
 
Validity of approval.  
16. Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Act, these regulations and the circulars 
issued thereunder, the approval granted by the Board under these regulations shall be 
permanent unless suspended or withdrawn by the Board or surrendered by the designated 
depository participant.  
Suspension or withdrawal of approval.  
17. Where any designated depository participant who has been granted approval under these 
regulations-  
(a) fails to comply with any conditions subject to which an approval has been granted to 
him under these regulations, or 
(b) contravenes any of the provisions of the securities laws or directions, instructions or 
circulars issued thereunder;  
the Board may, without prejudice to any action under the securities laws or directions, 
instructions or circulars issued thereunder, by an order suspend or withdraw such approval after 
providing the designated depository participant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.  
 
Surrender of approval.  
18. (1) Any designated depository participant, who has been granted approval under these 
regulations, desirous of surrendering the approval granted, may make a request for such 
surrender to the Board.  
(2) While accepting the surrender under sub -regulation (1), the Board may impose such 
conditions as it deems fit for the protection of investors or the clients of the designated 
depository participant or the securities market and such person shall comply with such 
conditions.  
CHAPTER IV 
INVESTMENT CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS

[Page 14]
Page 14 of 37 
 
 
Commencement of investment. 
19. No foreign portfolio investor shall make an y investment in securities in India without 
complying with the provisions of this Chapter.  
 
Investment restrictions.  
20. (1) A foreign portfolio investor shall invest only in the following securities, namely-  
(a) shares, debentures and warrants issued by a body corporate; listed or to be listed on a 
recognized stock exchange in India; 
(b)  units of schemes launched by mutual funds under Chapter V, VI-A and VI -B of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Fund) Regulations, 1996; 
(c) units of schemes floated by a Collective Investment Scheme in accordance with the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 
1999;  
(d) derivatives traded on a recognized stock exchange;  
(e) units of real estate investment trust s, infrastructure investment trusts and units of 
Category III Alternative Investment Funds registered with the Board; 
(f) Indian Depository Receipts;   
(g) any debt securities or other instruments as permitted by the Reserve Bank of India for 
foreign portfolio investors to invest in from time to time; and 
(h) such other instruments as specified by the Board from time to time.  
(2) Where a foreign portfolio investor, prior to commencement of these regulations, holds 
equity shares in a company whose shares are not listed on any recognised stock exchange, and 
continues to hold such shares after  the initial public offering and listing thereof, such shares 
shall be subject to lock-in for the same period, if any, as is applicable to shares held by a foreign 
direct investor placed in similar position, under the policy of the Government of India relating 
to foreign direct investment for the time being in force.  
(3) Nothing contained in sub -regulation (2) shall be deemed to prejudice the applicability of 
any other law, regulation or guideline.  
(4) In respect of investments in the secondary market, the following additional conditions shall 
apply –   
(a) A foreign portfolio investor shall transact in the securities in India only on the basis of 
taking and giving delivery of securities purchased or sold; 
(b) Nothing contained in clause (a) shall apply to –   
(i) any transactions in derivatives on a recognized stock exchange;  
(ii) short selling transactions in accordance with the framework specified by the 
Board;

[Page 15]
Page 15 of 37 
 
(iii) any transaction in securities pursuant to an agreement entered into with the 
merchant banker in the process of market making or subscribing to 
unsubscribed portion of the issue in accordance with Chapter IX of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Is sue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018;  
(iv) any other transaction specified by the Board; 
(c) The transaction involving dealing in securities by a foreign portfolio investor shall be 
only through stock brokers registered with the Board;  
(d) Nothing contained in clause (c) of this sub-regulation shall apply to –   
(i) transactions in Government securities and such other securities falling under 
the purview of the Reserve Bank of India carried out in the manner as specified 
by the Reserve Bank of India;  
(ii) sale of securities in response to a letter of offer sent by an acquirer in 
accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;  
(iii) sale of securities in response to an offer made by any promoter or acquirer in 
accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of 
Equity shares) Regulations, 2009;  
(iv) sale of securities in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Boa rd of 
India (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018;  
(v) divestment of securities in response to an offer by Indian companies in 
accordance with Operative Guidelines for Disinvestment of Shares by Indian 
Companies in the overseas market through issue of Am erican Depository 
Receipts or Global Depository Receipts as notified by the Government of India 
from time to time;  
(vi) any bid for, or acquisition of, securities in response to an offer for disinvestment 
of shares made by the Central Government or any State Government;  
(vii) any transaction in securities pursuant to an agreement entered into with 
merchant banker in the process of market making or subscribing to 
unsubscribed portion of the issue in accordance with Chapter IX of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of I ndia (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018;  
(viii)   transactions in corporate bonds by foreign portfolio investors;  
(ix) transactions on the electronic book provider platform of recogni sed stock 
exchanges; 
(x) transactions to receive, hold and sell unlisted securities as referred at regulation 
20(2) and transactions in unlisted securities received through involuntary 
corporate actions  including a scheme of a merger or demerger approved in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 20 13 as well as the

[Page 16]
Page 16 of 37 
 
applicable guidelines issued by the Board or pursuant to implementation of any 
resolution plan approved under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 or 
in accordance with the guidelines issued by  the Government of India  or the 
Reserve Bank of India or any other regulator for a scheme of debt resolution:  
Provided that such unlisted holdings of the foreign portfolio investor shall be 
treated as Foreign Direct Investment; 
(xi) transactions for transfer of right entitlements; 
(xii) purchase or sale transactions of illiquid or suspended or delisted securities by 
a foreign portfolio investor; 
Explanation – Illiquid securities shall mean those securities that are not 
frequently traded in terms of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;   
(xiii)  transactions between registered foreign portfolio investors, who are multi 
investment manager structure of the same beneficial owner and have common 
Permanent Account Number; and 
(xiv) any other transaction as may be specified by the Board; 
(e) A foreign portfolio investor shall hold, deliver or cause to be delivered securities only 
in the dematerialized form:  
Provided that any shares held in the physical form, before the commencement of these 
regulations, may c ontinue to be held in the physical form, if such shares cannot be 
dematerialised: 
Provided further that all the Rights Entitlements may be held or transferred in non -
dematerialized form. 
 (5) In respect of investments in the debt securities, the foreign portfolio investors shall also 
comply with terms, conditions or directions, specified or issued by the Board or Reserve Bank 
of India, from time to time, in addition to other conditions specified in these regulations.  
 (6) Unless otherwise approved by the Board, securities shall be registered in the name of the 
foreign portfolio investor as a beneficial owner as defined in clause (a) of sub -section (1) of 
section 2 of the Depositories Act, 1996.  
(7) The purchase of equity shares of each company by  a single foreign portfolio investor 
including its investor group shall be below ten per cent of the total paid-up equity capital on a 
fully diluted basis of the company: 
Provided that where the total investment under these regulations by a foreign portfolio investor 
including its investor group exceeds the threshold of  below ten per cent of  the total paid 
up equity capital in a listed or to be listed company on a fully diluted basis, the foreign portfolio 
investor shall divest the excess holding within five trading days from the date of settlement of 
the trades resulting in the breach: 
Provided further that in case the foreign portfolio investor fails to divest the excess holding , 
the entire investment in the company by such foreign portfolio investor including its investor

[Page 17]
Page 17 of 37 
 
group shall be considered as investment under the Foreign Direct Investment , as per the 
procedure specified by the Board and the foreign portfolio investor and its investor group shall 
not make further portfolio investment in that company under these regulations,  
 
Explanation I – ‘investor group’ shall have the meaning as provided under regulation 22(3) of 
these regulations.  
Explanation II – ‘fully diluted  basis’ means the total number of shares that would be 
outstanding if all possible sources of conversion are exercised. 
(8) An entity, registered as a  foreign portfolio investor shall be permitted to invest in Indian 
securities as a person resident outside  India in accordance with provisions of 29[the Foreign 
Exchange Management Act, 1999, rules and regulations made thereunder]. 
(9) 30[***] 
(10) A foreign portfolio investor may lend or borrow securities in accordance with the 
framework specified by the Board in this regard.  
(11) The investment by the foreign portfolio investor shall also be subject to such other 
conditions and restrictions as may be specified by the Government of India from time to time.  
 
Conditions for issuance of offshore derivative instruments.  
21. (1) No foreign portfolio investor may issue, subscribe to or otherwise deal in offshore 
derivative instruments, directly or indirectly, unless the following conditions are satisfied –   
(a) such offshore derivative instruments are issued only by persons registered as Category 
I foreign portfolio investor;  
(b) such offshore derivative instruments are issued only to persons eligible for registration 
as Category I foreign portfolio investors; 
Explanation – For the purpose of this sub-regulation, where an entity has an investment 
manager who is from the Financial Action Task Force member country, the investment 
manager shall not be required to be registered as a Category I foreign portfolio investor;  
(c) such offshore derivative instruments are issued after compliance with  the ‘know your 
client’ norms as specified by the Board; and 
(d) such other conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
                                                           
29 Substituted for “Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person Resident Outside 
India) Regulations, 2017 made under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999” by the SEBI (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulation, 2019, w.e.f. 19-12-2019. 
30 Sub-regulation 9 omitted by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulation, 2019, w.e.f. 19 -
12-2019. Prior to the omission, Sub-clause 9 read as under: 
“In cases where the Government of India enters into agreements or treaties with other sovereign Governments and 
where such agreements or treaties specifically recognize certain entities to be distinct and separate, the Board 
may, during the validity of such agreements or treaties, recognize them as such, subject to conditions as may b e 
specified by it.”

[Page 18]
Page 18 of 37 
 
(2) A foreign portfolio investor shall ensure that any transfer of offshore derivative instruments 
issued by or on behalf of it, is subject to the following conditions –   
(a) such offshore derivative instruments are transferred to persons subject to the fulfilment 
of sub-regulation (1); and  
(b) prior consent of the foreign portfolio investor is obtained for such transfer, except in 
cases, where the persons to whom the offshore derivative instruments are to be 
transferred, are pre-approved by the foreign portfolio investor. 
(3) A foreign portfolio investor shall fully disclose to the Board any information concerning 
the terms of and parties to off-shore derivative instruments, by whatever names they are called, 
entered into by it relating to any securities listed or proposed to be listed in any stock exchange 
in India, as and when and in such form as the Board may specify.  
(4) A foreign portfolio investor shall collect the regulatory fee, as specified in Part C of the 
Second Schedule, from every subscriber of the offshore derivative instrument issued by it and 
deposit the same with the Board. 
CHAPTER V 
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FOREIGN PORTFOLIO 
INVESTORS 
 
General obligations and responsibilities of foreign portfolio investors. 
22. (1) The foreign portfolio investor shall –   
(a) comply with the provisions of these regulations, as far as they may apply, circulars 
issued thereunder and any other terms and conditions specified by the Board from time 
to time;  
(b) 31[32[***]] inform the Board and designated depository participant in writing, if any 
information or particulars previously submitted to the Board or designated depository 
participant are found to be false or misleading, in any material respect33[, in the manner 
and within the timelines as may be specified by the Board from time to time];  
(c) 34[35[***] inform the Board and designated depository participant in writing, if there is 
any material change in  the  information  including  any  direct  or  indirect  change  in  
                                                           
31 Substituted for the words “forthwith” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio 
Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f.15-03-2023. 
32 The words and symbol ‘as soon as possible but not later than seven working days,’ omitted by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 03 -06-2024.  
33 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 03-06-2024. 
34Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f.15-03-2023. Prior to its substitution, clause (c) read as under,- 
“(c) forthwith inform the Board and designated depository participant in writing, if there is any material change 
in the information including any direct or indirect change in its structure or ownership or control, previousl y 
furnished by him to the Board or designated depository participant;” 
35 The words and symbol ‘as soon as possible but not later than seven working days,’ omitted by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 03-06-2024.

[Page 19]
Page 19 of 37 
 
its structure  or  ownership  or  control or investor group previously  furnished  by  him  
to  the  Board  or designated depository participant 36[, in the manner and within the 
timelines as may be specified by the Board from time to time];] 
(d) as and when req uired by the Board or any other Government agency in India, submit 
any information, record or documents in relation to its activities as a foreign portfolio 
investor;  
(e) 37[38[***]] inform the Board and the designated depository participant, in case of any 
penalty, pending litigation or proceedings, findings of inspections or investigations for 
which action may have been taken or is in the process of being taken by an overseas 
regulator against it 39[, in the manner and within the timelines as may be specified by 
the Board from time to time];  
(f) obtain a Permanent Account Number from the Income Tax Department;  
(g) in relation to its activities as foreign portfolio investor, at all times, subject itself to the 
extant Indian laws, rules, regulations, guidelines and circulars issued from time to time;  
(h) be a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;  
(i) undertake necessary KYC on its shareholders/investors in accordance with the rules 
applicable to it in the jurisdiction where it is organised;  
(j)  provide any additional information or documents including beneficiary ownership 
details of their cl ients as may be required by the designated depository participant or 
the Board or any other enforcement agency to ensure compliance with the Prevention 
of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and the rules and regulations specified thereunder, the 
Financial Action T ask Force standards and circulars issued from time to tim e by the 
Board; and 
(k) ensure that securities held by foreign portfolio investors are free from all encumbrances.  
Explanation – An encumbrance created to meet any statutory and regulatory 
requirements shall not be considered under this clause.  
40[(l) ensure that accurate details regarding its investor group are maintained with its 
designated depository participant at all times.] 
                                                           
36 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 03-06-2024. 
37 Substituted for the words “forthwith” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Foreign Portfolio 
Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f.15-03-2023. 
38 The words and symbol ‘as soon as possible but not later than seven working days,’ omitted by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 03-06-2024.  
39 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 03-06-2024. 
40 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2023 w.e.f.15-03-2023.

[Page 20]
Page 20 of 37 
 
41[Provided that the provisions of this clause shall not be applicable to foreign portfolio 
investor who invests only in Government Securities, in accordance with the conditions 
as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
(2) In case of jointly held depository accounts, each of the joint holders shall meet the 
requirements specified for foreign portfolio investor and each shall be deemed to be holding a 
depository account as a foreign portfolio investor.  
(3) Multiple entities registered as foreign portfolio investors  42[other than foreign portfolio 
investor who invests only in Government Securities, in accordance with the conditions as may 
be specified by the Board from time to time, ] and directly or indirectly, having common 
ownership of more than fifty per cent or common control, shall be treated as part of the same 
investor group and the investment limits of all such entities shall be clubbed at the investment 
limit as applicable to a single foreign portfolio investor:  
Provided that in case the limit is breached due to transacti on(s) by foreign portfolio investors 
under these regulations, the excess holding shall be divested within five trading days from the 
date of settlement of the trades causing the breach. 
Provided further that in case the foreign portfolio investor fails to divest the excess holding, 
the entire investment in the company by such foreign portfolio investors including its investor 
group shall be considered as investment under the Foreign Direct Investment as per the 
procedure specified by the Board and the foreign portfolio investor and its investor group shall 
not make further portfolio investment in that company under these regulations. 
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (3), the clubbing of investment limit 
of foreign portfolio investors having common control shall not be applicable where –  
(a) foreign portfolio investors are appropriately regulated public retail funds; or 
(b) the foreign portfolio investors are public retail funds  where the majority is owned by 
appropriately regulated public retail fund on look through basis; or 
(c) foreign portfolio in vestors are public retail funds and investment managers of such 
foreign portfolio investors are appropriately regulated. 
Explanation - Public retail funds means - 
(i) mutual funds or unit trusts which are open for subscription to retail investors 
and which do not have specific investor type requirements like accredited 
investors; 
(ii) insurance companies where segregated portfolio with one to one correlation 
with a single investor is not maintained; and 
(iii)pension funds. 
                                                           
41 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025, w.e.f. 08-02-2026. 
42 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025, w.e.f. 08-02-2026.

[Page 21]
Page 21 of 37 
 
43[(5) In case of any direct or indirect change i n structure or common ownership or control of 
the foreign portfolio  investor or investor group,  it shall 44[***] bring  the  same  to  the  notice  
of  its  designated depository participant 45[, in the manner and within the timelines as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time].] 
46[Provided that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not be applicable to foreign portfolio 
investor who invests only in Government Securities, in accordance with the conditions as may 
be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
47[(6) A foreign portfolio investor that fulfils the criteria specified by the Board from time to 
time, shall provide information or documents in relation to the persons with any ownership, 
economic interest or control, in the foreign portfolio investor. 
(7) The information or documents specified in sub -regulation (6) shall be provided in the 
manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
Code of conduct.  
23. A foreign portfolio investor shall, at all times, abide by the code of conduct as specified in 
the Third Schedule of these regulations.  
 
Engagement of designated depository participant  
24. An applicant seeking registration as a foreign portfolio investor shall engage a designated 
depository participant to avail its services for obtaining a certificate of registration as foreign 
portfolio investor and at all times the designated depository participant and the custodian of the 
foreign portfolio investor shall be the same entity. 
 
48[Dispute Resolution. 
24A. All claims, differences or disputes between a foreign portfolio investor and a designated 
depository participant arising out of or in relation to the activities of the designated depository 
participant in the securities market shall be submitted to a disp ute resolution mechanism that 
                                                           
43 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f.15-03-2023. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (5) read as under,- 
“(5) In case of any direct or indirect change in structure or common ownership or control of the foreign portfolio 
investor, it shall forthwith bring the same to the notice of its designated depository participant.”  
44 The words and symbol ‘ ,as soon as possible but not later than seven working days,’ omitted by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 03 -06-2024.  
45 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 03-06-2024. 
46 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025, w.e.f. 08-02-2026. 
47 Inserted by the the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 10-08-2023. 
 
 
48 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 04-07-2023.

[Page 22]
Page 22 of 37 
 
includes mediation and/or conciliation and/or arbitration, in accordance with the pr ocedure 
specified by the Board.] 
 
Appointment of custodian.  
25. (1) A foreign portfolio investor or a global custodian who is acting on behalf of the foreign 
portfolio investor, shall enter into an agreement with the designated depository participant 
engaged by it to act as a custodian, before making any investment under these regulations.  
(2) In addition to the obligation of custodian under any other regulations, the custodian shall –   
(a) report to the depositories and the Board on a daily basis the transactions entered into by 
the foreign portfolio investor in the form and manner specified by the Board or 
depositories from time to time;  
(b) monitor investment of the foreign portfolio investors;  
(c) maintain the relevant true and fair records, books of accounts, and documents including 
the records relating to transactions of foreign portfolio investors;  
(d) report the holdings of foreign portfolio investors who form part of investor group to the 
depositories and the depositories shall club the investment limits to ensure that 
combined holdings of all these foreign portfolio investors remains below ten per cent 
of the total paid-up equity capital on a fully diluted basis of a investee company at any 
time.  
 
Appointment of designated bank.  
26. A foreign portfolio investor shall appoint a branch of a bank authorised by the Reserve 
Bank of India for opening a foreign currency denominated account and special non -resident 
rupee account before making any investments in India.  
 
Appointment of compliance officer.  
27. (1) Every foreign portfolio investor shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be 
responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, 
guidelines and instructions issued by the designated depository participant or the Board or the 
Central Government: 
Provided that in case of a foreign portfolio investor who is an individual, such individual shall 
be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, 
guidelines and instructions issued by the designated depository participant or the Board or the 
Central Government.  
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report any non-compliance 
observed by him to the Board and the designated depository participant.

[Page 23]
Page 23 of 37 
 
Investment advice in publicly accessible media.  
28. (1) A foreign portfolio investor, or any of its employees shall not render directly or 
indirectly any investment advice about any security in the publicly accessible media, whether 
real-time or otherwise, unless a disclosure of its interest including long or short position in the 
said security has been made, while rendering such advice.  
(2) In case, an employee of the foreign portfolio investor is rendering such advice, he shall also 
disclose the interest of his dependent family members and his employer including their long or 
short position in the said security, while rendering such advice.  
 
Maintenance of proper books of accounts, records and documents. 
29. Every foreign por tfolio investor shall mainta in the following books of accounts, records 
and documents, namely –   
(a) true and fair accounts relating to remittanc es of funds to India for buying and  selling; 
and realising capital gains or losses on investment made from such remittances;  
(b) bank statement of accounts;  
(c) contract notes relating to purchase and sale of securities; and  
(d) communication including in electronic mode from and to the designated depository 
participants, stock brokers and depository participants regarding investments in 
securities.  
Preservation of books of accounts, records and documents.  
30. Subject to the provisions of any other law, for the time being in force, every foreign 
portfolio investor shall preserve the books of accounts, records and documents specified in 
regulation 29 for a minimum period of five years from the date of approval of the surrender or 
cancellation of registration by the Board.  
 
CHAPTER VI 
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DESIGNATED 
DEPOSITORY PARTICIPANTS 
 
Obligations and responsibilities of designated depository participants. 
31. (1) All designated depository participants who have been granted approval by the Board 
shall -  
(a) comply with the provisions of these regulations, as far as they may apply, circulars 
issued thereunder and any other terms and conditions specified by the Board from time 
to time;

[Page 24]
Page 24 of 37 
 
(b) 49[ as soon as possible but not later than two working days,] inform the Board in writing, 
if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false 
or misleading, in any material respect;  
(c) 50[ as soon as possible but not later than two working days,] inform the Board in writing, 
if there is any material change in the information previously furnished by him to the 
Board;  
(d) furnish such information, record or documents to the Board and Reserve Bank of India, 
as may be required, in relation to its activities as a designated depository participant;  
(e) ensure that only registered foreign portfolio investors are allowed to invest in securities 
market;  
(f) have adequate systems to ensure that in case of jointly held depository accounts, each 
of the joint holders meet the requirements specified for foreign portfolio investors and 
shall perform KYC due diligence for each of the joint holders;  
(g) in case of any penalty, pending litigation or proceedings, findings of inspections or 
investigations for which action may have been taken or is in the process of being taken 
by any regulator against a designated depository participant, the designated depository 
participant shall bring such information 51[ as soon as possible but not later than two 
working days], to the attention of the Board, depositories and stock exchanges;  
(h) be guided by the relevant circular on Anti -Money Laundering or Combating the 
Financing of Terrorism specified by the Board from time to time.  
(2) The designated depository participant engaged by an applicant seeking registration as 
foreign portfolio investor shall –   
(a) ascertain at the time of granting registration and whenever applicable, whether the 
applicant forms part of any investor group;  
(b) open a dematerialized account for the applicant only after ensuring compliance with all 
the requirements under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and rules and 
regulations specified thereunder, Financial Action Task Force standards and circulars 
issued by the Board in this regard, from time to time and shall also ensure that foreign 
portfolio investors comply with all these requirements on an ongoing basis;  
(c) carry out necessary due diligence to ensure that no other depository account per 
depository is held by any of the concerned applicant as a foreign portfolio investor, 
before opening a depository account 
Provided that a f oreign portfolio investor can open separate depository accounts for 
holding securities under the Voluntary Retention Route  or any other scheme as 
specified by the Reserve Bank of India or the Board;  
                                                           
49 Substituted for the words “forthwith” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio 
Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f.15-03-2023. 
50 Ibid. 
51 Substituted for the words “forthwith” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio 
Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f.15-03-2023.

[Page 25]
Page 25 of 37 
 
(d) collect and remit fees to the Board, in the manner as specified in Part A of Second 
Schedule; and  
(e) in case of change in structure or constitution or direct or indirect change in common 
ownership or control reported by the foreign portfolio investor, re-assess the eligibility 
of such foreign portfolio investor. 
(3) The designated depository participant shall maintain segregation of activities such that there 
is no conflict of interest between the activity of grant of registration to a foreign portfolio 
investor in the capacity of a designated depository participant and its other activities.  
(4) The designated depository participant shall submit the reports as specified by the Board 
from time to time. 
(5)  The designated depository participant shall carry out an annual review of its systems, 
procedures and controls by an independent professional.  
Explanation: The review shall cover the systems and procedures being followed by them to 
meet its obligations towards its clients, regulators and other relevant bodies and compliance 
with the requirements of the regulations and circulars issued by the Board.  
(6) The designated depository participant shall furnish to the Board annual audit reports on its 
internal control for a particular calendar year within ninety days of the next calendar year.  
(7) The designated depository participant shall submit the Action Taken Report, if any, on the 
audit report on a quarterly basis to the Board. 
 
52[Investor Charter. 
31A. The designated depository participant shall ensure compliance with the Investor Charter 
specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
Maintenance of proper books of accounts, records and documents. 
32. (1) Every designated depository participant shall maintain the relevant true and fair records, 
books of accounts, and documents including the physical or electronic record s relating to 
registration of foreign portfolio investors.  
(2) The designated depository participant shall intimate to the Board in writing the location 
where such books, records and documents shall be maintained.  
(3) Subject to the provisions of any oth er law for the time being in force, every designated 
depository participant shall preserve the books of accounts, physical or electronic records and 
documents specified in this regulation at all times.  
 
Appointment of compliance officer.  
                                                           
52 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Charter) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 10-02-2025.

[Page 26]
Page 26 of 37 
 
33. (1) Every designated depository participant shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be 
responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, 
guidelines and instructions issued by the Board or the Central Government.  
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report any non-compliance 
observed by him to the Board.  
 
Information to the Board or the Reserve Bank of India.  
34. Every designated depository participant shall, as and when required by the Board or the 
Reserve Bank of India, submit to the Board or the Reserve Bank of India, as the case may be, 
any information, such records or documents in relation to its activities of foreign portfolio 
investor.  
 
Investment advice in publicly accessible media.  
35. (1) A designated depository participant, or any of its employees shall not render directly or 
indirectly any investment advice about any security in the publicly accessible media, whether 
real-time or otherwise, unless a disclosure of its interest including long or short position in the 
said security has been made, while rendering such advice.  
(2) In case, an employee of the designated depository participant is rendering such advice, he 
shall also disclose the interest of his dependent family members and his employer including 
their long or short position in the said security, while rendering such advice.  
 
CHAPTER VII 
INSPECTION 
 
Board's right to inspect. 
36. The Board may suo moto or upon receipt of any information or complaint, appoint one or 
more persons as inspecting authority to undertake inspection of the books of account, records 
and documents relating to a designated depository participant for any of the following 
purposes, namely, -   
(a) to ensure that the books of account, records including telephone records and electronic 
records and documents are being maintained by the designated depository participants;  
(b) to ascertain whether any circumstances exist that would render the designated 
depository participants unfit or ineligible;  
(c) to inquire into the complaints received from investors, clients, other market participants 
or any other person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the designated 
depository participants;  
(d) to ascertain whether the provisions of the securities laws and the directions or circulars 
issued thereunder are being complied with by the designated depository participants;

[Page 27]
Page 27 of 37 
 
(e) to ascertain whether the systems, procedures and safeguards which have been 
established and are being followed by the designa ted depository participants are 
adequate; and  
(f) to investigate suo moto into the affairs of the designated depository participants in the 
interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors.  
 
Notice before inspection. 
37. (1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 36, the Board shall give not less than 
ten days’ notice to the designated depository participants:  
Provided that where the Board is satisfied that, in the interest of the investors, no such notice 
should be given, it may, by an order in writing direct that such inspection be taken up without 
such notice.  
(2) During the course of an inspection, the designated depository participants against whom 
the inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligation  as provided in 
regulation 38.  
 
Obligations of designated depository participants in connection with inspection by the 
Board.  
38. (1) It shall be the duty of the designated depository participants whose affairs are being 
inspected, and of every director,  officer and employee thereof to produce to the inspecting 
officer such books, securities, accounts, records and other documents in its custody or control 
and furnish him with such statements and information relating to its activities, as the inspecting 
officer may require, within such reasonable period as the inspecting officer may specify.  
(2) The designated depository participants shall allow the inspecting officer to have reasonable 
access to the premises occupied by such designated depository particip ant or by any other 
person on its behalf and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, 
documents and computer data in the possession of the designated depository participants or 
such other person and also provide copies of documents or other materials which in the opinion 
of the inspecting officer are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.  
(3) The inspecting officer, in the course of inspection, shall be entitled to examine or to record 
the statements of any director, officer or employee of the designated depository participants.  
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of the designated depository 
participants to give to the inspecting officer all assistance in connection with the inspection, 
which the inspecting officer may reasonably require. 
Submission of report to the Board.  
39. The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection or 
investigation as the case may be, submit a report to the Board:  
Provided that if direc ted to do so by the Board, the inspecting officer  may submit interim 
report(s).

[Page 28]
Page 28 of 37 
 
 
Action on inspection report.  
40. The Board shall after consideration of the inspection report, take such action as it may deem 
fit including action under Chapter V of the Se curities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.  
 
Appointment of an auditor.  
41. The Board shall have the power to appoint an auditor to inspect or investigate, as the case 
may be, into the books of account, records, documents, infrastructures, systems and procedures 
or affairs of the applicant or the designated depository participants, as the case may be:  
Provided that the auditors so appointed shall have the same powers as vested in the inspecting 
officer under regulation 3 6 and the applicant or designated depository participants and its 
directors, officers and employees shall be und er the same obligations, towards the auditor so 
appointed, as are mentioned in regulation 38.  
 
Board to recover the expenses.  
42. The Board shall be entitled to recover from the designated depository participants or 
applicant, as the case may be, such expenses including the fees paid to the auditors as may be 
incurred by it for the purposes of inspecting or investigating the books of account, records, 
documents, infrastructures, systems and procedures or affairs of the designated depository 
participants or applicant, as the case may be.  
 
 
CHAPTER VIII 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 
 
Liability for action in case of default.  
43. A foreign portfolio investor, designated depository participant, depository or any other 
person who contravenes any of t he provisions of these regulations shall be liable for action 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 or the 
relevant provisions of the Act or the Depositories Act, 1996  and the regulations made 
thereunder.  
 
53[CHAPTER VIII-A 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
                                                           
53 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17 -04-2020.

[Page 29]
Page 29 of 37 
 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
43A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or 
any of the provisions of these re gulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding 
twelve months, for furthering innovation 54[***] relating to testing new products, processes, 
services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities 
markets. 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub -regulation (1) shall be subject to the 
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to 
be complied with on a continuous basis. 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a  live 
testing environment where new  products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be 
deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering 
innovation in the securities market , subject to such conditions as may be specified by the 
Board.] 
 
55[Exemption from strict enforcement of the regulations in other cases. 
43B. (1) The Board may suo motu or on an application made by a foreign portfolio investor, 
for reasons recorded in writing, grant relaxation from the strict enforcement of any of the 
provisions of these regulations, subject to such conditions as the Board deems fit to impose in 
the interests of investors and the securities market and for the development of the securities 
market, if the Board is satisfied that: 
(a) the non-compliance is caused due to factors beyond the control of the entity; or 
(b)  the requirement is procedural or technical in nature.  
(2) The application referred to under sub -regulation (1)  shall be accompanied by a non -
refundable fee of 56[Rs. 90,000 in eligible foreign exchange equivalent ] payable by way of 
NEFT/ RTGS/ IMPS or any other mode allowed by the Reserve Bank of India in the designated 
bank account of the Board.] 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER IX 
                                                           
54 The words “in technological aspects” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
55 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022 w.e.f. 14-01-2022. 
56 Substituted for  “US $ 1,000 ” by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 03-01-2027.

[Page 30]
Page 30 of 37 
 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
Power of the Board to issue clarifications.  
44. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of 
these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars or 
issue separate circular or guidelines or framework for each categ ory of foreign portfolio 
investors or designated depository participant.  
 
Repeal, rescission and saving.  
45. (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 
2014 shall stand repealed.  
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal–   
(a) anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken, including 
registration or approval granted, fees collected, registration or approval, suspended or 
cancelled, any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice 
issued under the repealed regulations, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under 
the corresponding provisions of these regulations;  
(b) a foreign portfolio investor registered under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Foreign Portfolio I nvestor) Regulations, 2014 sh all be re -categorised by their 
respective designated depository participant; 
(c) any offshore derivative instrument issued under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014 befor e the commencement of 
these regulations shall be deemed to have been issued under the corresponding 
provisions of these regulations; 
(d) any application made to the Board under the repealed regulations, prior to such repeal, 
and pending before it shall be deem ed to have been made under the corresponding 
provisions of these regulations; and 
(e) the  previous  operation  of  the  repealed  regulations  or  anything  duly  done  or 
suffered thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or  
incurred under the repealed regulations, any penalty, incurred in respect of any violation 
committed against the repealed regulations, or any  investigation,  legal  proceeding  or  
remedy  in  respect  of  any  such  right, privilege,  obligation,  liabi lity,  penalty as  
aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations has never been 
repealed; 
(3) After the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) 
Regulations, 2014, any reference thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or circulars 
issued thereunder by the Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding 
provisions of these regulations.

[Page 31]
Page 31 of 37 
 
FIRST SCHEDULE 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(FOREIGN PORTFOLIO INVESTORS) REGULATIONS, 2019 
[See regulation 7(1)] 
CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION 
 
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1A) of section 12 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (the “Act”), read with the regulations made thereunder the 
Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to _________________________________ as 
a foreign portfolio investor, subject to the conditions specified in the Act and in the regulations 
made thereunder.  
II. The category  and sub -category of the foreig n portfolio investor is _______ and 
__________respectively. 
III. The registration number for the foreign portfolio investor is …/.../.../.../....  
57[IV. The date of Birth/Incorporation/Agreement/Partnership or Trust Deed/Formation of 
Body of Individuals or Association of Persons of the foreign portfolio investor is  ../../….] 
58[V.] The address of the foreign portfolio investor is __________________. 
59[VI.] This certificate shall be valid till it is suspended, cancelled or surrendered in accordance 
with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 
2019. 
 
Date:  
Place:  
By Order  
Signature  
Name and Designation of the Authorised Signatory of  
Designated depository participant 
Issued on behalf of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
  
                                                           
57 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2026 w.e.f. 07-07-2026. 
58 Renumbered as paragraph V. by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 07-07-2026. 
59 Renumbered as paragraph VI. by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 07-07-2026.

[Page 32]
Page 32 of 37 
 
SECOND SCHEDULE 
PART A 
PAYMENT OF FEES APPLICABLE TO FOREIGN PORTFOLIO INVESTOR 
[See regulation 3 and regulation 7(3)] 
Registration Fee 
 (1) Foreign portfolio investor belonging to Category I and II shall pay registration fees of 60[ 
Rs. 2,30,000 and Rs. 23,000 in eligible foreign exchange equivalent ], respectively or any other 
amount specified by the Board from time to time 61[prior to the grant of certificate of 
registration] to the designated depository participant. 
(2) Foreign portfolio investor belonging to Category I and II shall pay registration fees for 
every block of three years, till the validity of its registration,  
62[Provided that a SWAGAT-FI shall pay registration fees for every block of ten years, till the 
validity of its registration.] 
(3) International or multilateral agency such as World Bank and other institutions, established 
outside India for providing aid, which have been granted privileges and immunities fr om 
payment of tax and duties by the Central Government shall be exempted from the payment of 
registration fees. 
(4) The designated depository participants of the respective foreign portfolio investors shall 
collect the registration fees in advance once in every three years from all the foreign portfolio 
investors registered by it, and remit the fees to the Board in the manner specified by the Board 
from time to time 63[:] 
64[Provided that a foreign portfolio investor shall, wherever applicable, pay the late fee of 65[ 
Rs. 4,500 in eligible foreign exchange equivalent ] per day for Category I and 66[ Rs. 500 in 
eligible foreign exchange equivalent] per day for Category-II foreign portfolio investors.] 
67[Provided further that in case of a SWAGAT-FI, the registration fees shall be collected in 
advance once in every ten years.] 
                                                           
60 Substituted for the words and symbols “US $2500 and US $250” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 03-01-2027. 
61 Substituted for the words “at the time of submission of the Form ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 03-01-2027. 
62 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 1-06-2026. 
63 Substituted for the symbol “.” by  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 03-06-2024. 
64 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 03-06-2024. 
65 Substituted for the words and symbols “US $50 ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 03-01-2027. 
66 Substituted for the words and symbols “US $5 ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 03-01-2027. 
 
67 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 1-06-2026.

[Page 33]
Page 33 of 37 
 
68[(5) Every designated depository participant shall remit the fees collected from the foreign 
portfolio investors in INR to the Board in the following manner:  
(a) in the case of initial registration, within five working days from the dat e of grant of 
certificate of registration to the foreign portfolio investor, along with the details in the format, 
as may be specified from time to time; 
(b) in the case of fees paid for subsequent blocks after registration or any late fees, within five 
working days from the date of receipt of such fees by the designated depository participant, 
along with the details in the format, as may be specified from time to time. ] 
 
PART B 
PAYMENT OF FEES APPLICABLE TO DESIGNATED DEPOSITORY 
PARTICIPANT 
[See regulation 10(2) and regulation 13(1)] 
(1) Every designated depository participant shall pay application fees and approval fees, before 
commencement of its activity. 
(2) Every designated depository participant shall pay application fees of  ` 10,000/- at the time 
of making application, by way of direct credit through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS in the bank account 
in the name of “Securities and Exchange Board of India” payable at Mumbai. 
(3) Every designated depository participant shall pay approval fee s of ` 5,00,000/- by way of 
direct credit through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS in the bank account in the name of “Securities and 
Exchange Board of India” payable at Mumbai, at the time of grant of prior approval by the 
Board. 
 
 
PART C 
COLLECTION OF REGULATORY FEES BY FOREIGN PORTFOLIO INVESTOR 
FROM ODI SUBSCRIBERS 
[See sub-regulation (4) of Regulation 21] 
Regulatory Fee 
                                                           
68 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Foreign Portfolio Investors ) ( Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 03-01-2027. Prior to substitution, clause (5) read as under: 
“(5) Every designated depository participant shall remit the fees collected from the foreign portfolio investors 
during the immediate preceding month, to the Board, by 5th working day of every month, along w ith the details 
in the format, as may be specified from time to time.”

[Page 34]
Page 34 of 37 
 
(1) A foreign portfolio investor shall collect the regulatory fee of 69[Rs. 75,000 in eligible 
foreign exchange equivalent] or any other amount, as may be specified by the Board from time 
to time, from every subscriber of offshore derivative instrument issued by it and deposit the 
same with the Board by way of electronic transfer in the designated bank account of the Board. 
(2) The regulatory fee shall be deposited once every three years beginning April 1, 2017. 
 
THIRD SCHEDULE 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (FOREIGN PORTFOLIO 
INVESTORS) REGULATIONS, 2019 
CODE OF CONDUCT 
[See regulation 23] 
1. A foreign portfolio investor and its key  personnel shall observe high standards of integrity, 
fairness and professionalism in all dealings in the Indian securities market with intermediaries, 
regulatory and other government authorities. 
2. A foreign portfolio investor shall, at all times, render high standards of service, exercise due 
diligence and independent professional judgment. 
3. A foreign portfolio investor shall ensure and maintain confidentiality in respect of trades 
done on its own behalf or on behalf of its clients. 
4. A foreign portfolio investor shall ensure the following –  
(a) Clear segregation of its own money  and securities and  that of  its client's money  and 
securities. 
(b) Arm’s length relationship between its business of fund management/investment and its 
other business. 
5. A foreign portfolio investor shall maintain an appropriate level of knowledge and 
competency and abide by the provisions of the Act, regulations made thereunder and the 
circulars and guidelines, which may be applicable and relevant to the activities carried on by 
it. Every foreign portfolio investor shall also comply with award of the Ombudsman and 
decision of the Board under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Ombudsman) 
Regulations, 2003. 
6. A foreign portfolio investor shall not make any untrue stateme nt or suppress any material 
fact in any documents, reports or information to be furnished to the designated depository 
participant and/or Board. 
7. A foreign portfolio investor shall ensure that good corporate policies and corporate 
governance policies are observed by it. 
                                                           
69 Substituted for the words and symbols “US $800” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 03-01-2027.

[Page 35]
Page 35 of 37 
 
8. A foreign portfolio investor shall ensure that it does not engage in fraudulent and 
manipulative transactions in the securities listed in any stock exchange in India. 
9. A foreign portfolio investor or any of its directors or managers shall not, either through its/his 
own account or through any associate or family members, relatives or friends indulge in any 
insider trading. 
10. A foreign portfolio investor shall not be a party to or instrumental for – a) creation of false 
market in secu rities listed or proposed to be listed in any stock exchange in India; b) price 
rigging or manipulation of prices of securities listed or proposed to be listed in any stock 
exchange in India; c) passing of price sensitive information to any person or inter mediary in 
the securities market. 
 
Sd/- 
 
AJAY TYAGI 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

[Page 36]
Page 36 of 37 
 
Note:  
 
1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 
2019, the Principal Regulations were published in the Gazette of India on September 
23, 2019 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2019/36). 
 
2. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 
2019 were subsequently amended on – 
(1) 19th December, 2019 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2019/44. 
(2) 7th April, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio 
Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2020/09. 
(3) 17th April, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulati ons, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2020/10. 
(4) 3rd August, 2021, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2021/30. 
(5) 3rd August, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/ LAD-
NRO/GN/2021/32. 
(6) 26th October, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Second  Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/54 
(7) 14th January, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2022/64 
(8) 9th November, 2022 by the Securitie s and Exchange Board of India (Payment 
of Fees (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2022/99 
(9) 14th March, 2023, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investor s) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2023/128. 
(10) 3rd July, 2023, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Dispute Resolution Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/137. 
(11) 10th August, 2023  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 20 23 vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/143 
(12) 3rd June, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio 
Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2024/183.

[Page 37]
Page 37 of 37 
 
(13) 26th June, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Second Ame ndment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/185. 
(14) 10th February, 2025, by the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Investor 
Charter) ( Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/228. 
(15) 11th August, 202 5 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 202 5 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/254. 
(16) 03rd December, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) ( Second Amendment) Regulations, 202 5 vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/279. 
(17) 07th July, 202 6 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 202 6 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2026/310. 
 
 
 
*** 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations]
