[Page 1]
Page 1 of 42 
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  
(MERCHANT BANKERS) REGULATIONS, 1992 
[Amended upto December 5, 2025] 
No. LE/11112/92. In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 30 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board with the previous approval of 
the Central Government hereby makes the following regulations, namely:   
         
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette . 
 
Definitions 
2[(1)]1 In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,— 
2[***] 
3[(a)  “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(aa) “body corporate” shall have the meaning assigned to it in or under [clause (11) of 
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)]4; 
(ab) “certificate” means a certificate of 5[***] registration issued by the Board; 
(ac) 6[***] 
                                                
1 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Banker) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 30-03-2021 
 
2. Omitted  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry 
Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f., 27.09.2002. Prior to omission the clause read as 
under : 
(a) "enquiry officer" means any Officer of the Board, or any other person, having experience in dealing with 
the problems relating to the securities market, who is authorised by the Board under Chapter V; 
3 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Third Amendment) 
Regulation, 2006, w.e.f., 7-9-2006.  
4 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Banker) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 30-03-2021 
5 The words “initial or permanent” were omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In 
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
Prior to omission the words “initial or permanent” were inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011. 
6 Omitted by the (Change in conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011. w.e.f. 19-04-2011.  Prior to the omission the clause read as under: 
“Change of status or constitution” in relation to a merchant banker— 
(i) means any change in its status or constitution of whatsoever nature; and

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 42 
 
 7[(ad) “Change in control” in case of a body corporate –  
(A) if its shares are listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be construed 
with reference to the definition of control in terms of regulations framed under 
clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act;  
(B) if its shares are not listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be 
construed with reference to the definition of control as provided in sub-section 
(27) of Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);] 
 
 (b) “form” means a form specified in Schedule I; 
 (c) “inspecting authority” means one or more persons appointed by the Board to 
exercise powers conferred under Chapter IV; 
8[(ca) “issue” means an offer of sale or purchase of securities by any body corporate, or 
by any other person or group of persons on its or his or their behalf, as the case may 
be, to or from the public, or the holders of securities of such body corporate or 
person or group of persons through a merchant banker; 
(cb) “merchant banker” means any person who is engaged in the business of issue 
management either by making arrangements regarding selling, buying or subscribing 
to securities or acting as manager, consultant, adviser or rendering corporate 
advisory service in relation to such issue management;] 
 9[(d) “principal officer” means an employee of the merchant banker, who has at least five 
years of experience in working in the financial markets, and who has been 
designated as such by the merchant banker, and is responsible for the decisions made 
by the merchant banker for the management or administration of merchant banking 
activities and all other operations of the merchant banker: 
                                                                                                                                            
(ii) without prejudice to generality or sub-clause (i), includes— 
(A) amalgamation, demerger, consolidation or any other kind of corporate restructuring falling within the 
scope of section 391 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or the corresponding provision of any other 
law for the time being in force; 
(B)change in its managing director or whole-time director; and 
(C)any change in control over the body corporate.” 
 
7 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Control in Intermediaries) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 17-1-2023. Prior to the substitution, clause (ad) read as under: 
 
“change in control”, in relation to a merchant banker being a body corporate, means:— 
(i) if its shares are listed on any recognised stock exchange, change in control within the meaning 
of [regulations framed under clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act 
(ii) in any other case, change in the controlling interest in the body corporate. 
 Explanation: For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means an interest, 
whether direct or indirect, to the extent of at least fifty one per cent of voting rights in the body 
corporate;” 
 
8  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2006., w.e.f., 7-9-2006. 
9 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. Prior to the substitution, clause (d) read as under: 
““principal officer” means— 
 (i) proprietor, in the case of a proprietary concern, 
 (ii) partner, in the case of a partnership firm, 
(iii)      director, in the case of a body corporate who is responsible for the activities of the 
merchant banker.”

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 42 
 
   Provided that a merchant banker that already holds a certificate of registration 
under these regulations shall ensure compliance with this clause within such time 
and in the manner, as may be specified by the Board;] 
  (e) 10[***] 
 (f) [***] 11 
12[(g) “underwriter” means a person who engages in the business of underwriting of an 
issue of securities of a body corporate;  
 (h) “underwriting” means an agreement to subscribe to or procure subscription for 
securities, issued or offered for sale, remaining unsubscribed] 
13[(2)  Words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations shall have the 
same meaning as have been assigned to them under the Act or the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), or the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 
1996), or the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or any rules or regulations made 
thereunder or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may 
be.] 
CHAPTER II 
REGISTRATION OF MERCHANT BANKERS 
 
14[Application for grant of certificate of registration. 
                                                
10 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2006., w.e.f., 7-9-2006. 
11 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Banker) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2021   w.e.f. 30-03-2021 
12 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Banker) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 30-03-2021 
13 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Banker) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 30-03-2021 
14 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. Prior to the substitution, regulation 3 read as under: 
“Application for grant of certificate of registration. 
3. (1) An application by a person for grant of a certificate of registration shall be made to the Board 
in Form A. 
 (1A) An application for registration made under sub-regulation (1) shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II. 
(2) The application under sub-regulation (1) shall be made for any one of the following categories 
of the merchant banker namely:— 
 (a) Category I, that is— 
(i) to carry on any activity of the issue management, which will, inter alia , consist of 
preparation of prospectus and other information relating to the issue, determining 
financial structure, tie up of financiers and final allotment and refund of the 
subscriptions; and 
(ii) to act as adviser, consultant, manager, underwriter, portfolio manager; 
 (b) Category II, that is to act as adviser, consultant, co-manager, underwriter, portfolio 
manager; 
 (c) Category III, that is to act as underwriter, adviser, consultant to an issue; 
 (d) Category IV, that is to act only as adviser or consultant to an issue. 
 (2A) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, with effect from 9th December, 1997: 
(i) an application under sub-regulation (2) can be made only for carrying on the 
activities mentioned in clause (a) therein, and 
(ii) ***

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 42 
 
3. (1) No person shall act as a merchant banker or hold itself out as a merchant banker 
unless it has obtained a certificate of registration from the Board under these regulations. 
(2) An application by a person for grant of a certificate of registration shall be made to the 
Board in Form A. 
(3) An application for registration made under sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by 
a non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II.  
(4)  The application under  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  made  for  any  one  of  the  
following categories of the merchant banker namely:— 
(a) Category I, which can carry out all the permitted activities; 
(b) Category II, which can carry out all the permitted activities except 
public issues of equity shares proposed to be listed on the main 
board of a recognised stock exchange:  
Provided that a merchant banker that already holds a certificate of registration 
under these regulations shall re-categorise itself as Category I or Category II within such 
time period and in the manner, as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
Application to conform to the requirements. 
4. Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3, any application, which is 
not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions specified in the form 
shall be rejected : 
Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given an 
opportunity to remove within the time specified such objections as may be indicated by 
the Board. 
 
Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation. 
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification 
regarding matters relevant to the activity of a merchant banker for the purpose of disposal 
of the application. 
(2) The applicant or its principal officer shall, if so required, appear before the Board for 
personal representation. 
 
 
Consideration of application. 
6. The Board shall take into account 15[***], all matters which are relevant to the 
activities 16[of a] 17[***] merchant banker and in particular 18[,whether] the applicant 
complies with the following requirements, namely:— 
                                                                                                                                            
(iii) an applicant can carry on the activity as portfolio manager only if he obtains separate 
certificate of registration under the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Portfolio Manager) Regulations, 1993. 
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1) any application made by a merchant 
banker prior to coming into force of these regulations containing such particulars or as near 
thereto as mentioned in Form A shall be treated as an application made in pursuance of sub-
regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly.” 
15 The words “for considering the grant of a certificate” were omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024.  
16 The word “relating” was substituted with the words “of a” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024.

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 42 
 
  19[(a) the applicant shall be a body corporate including a company incorporated under the 
Companies Act, 2013 or any previous company law or a limited liability partnership 
firm, except-  
(i) a body corporate incorporated outside India other than a foreign bank licensed 
by the Reserve Bank of India, 
(ii) a One Person Company as defined under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), 
and 
(iii) a non-banking financial company as defined under clause (f) of section 45-I of 
the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), as amended from time to time:] 
   20[Provided that the merchant banker who has been granted registration by the 
Reserve Bank of India to act as a primary or satellite dealer may carry on such 
activity subject to the condition that it shall not accept or hold public deposit;] 
21[(aa)] the applicant has the necessary infrastructure like adequate office space, 
equipments, and manpower to effectively discharge 22[its] activities; 
23[(b) the applicant has in its employment, a minimum of two persons who are 
professionally qualified in finance or law or accountancy or business management 
from a Government recognised university or institution or who have a recognised 
degree in finance or law or accountancy or business management from a foreign 
university or institution;] 
24[(ba) the employees referred to in clause (b) and the compliance officer shall possess 
such certification(s) as may be specified by the Board;] 
(c) 25[***] 
    26[(d)   the applicant fulfils the capital adequacy and liquid net worth requirements 
specified in regulations 7 and 7A;] 
                                                                                                                                            
17 The word “to” omitted  by  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Merchant Bankers)  
(Amendment)  Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
18 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 
w.e.f., 29.11.2024.  
19 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. Prior to the substitution, clause (a), without the proviso therein, read 
as under: 
“(a) the applicant shall be a body corporate other than a non-banking financial company as defined 
under clause (f) of section 45-I of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), as amended from 
time to time:” 
20. Proviso to clause (a) to regulation 6 was inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999 w.e.f., 17.11.1999. 
21. Clause (a) to regulation 6 was renumbered as (aa) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997 w.e.f.,  09.12.1997. 
22 The word “his” substituted by the word “its” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024.  
23 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. Prior to its substitution, clause (b) read as under: 
“(b) the applicant has in his employment minimum of two persons who have the experience to conduct 
the business of merchant banker;” 
24 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
25 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. Prior to the omission, clause (c) read as under: 
“(c) a person directly or indirectly connected with the applicant has not been granted registration by the 
Board. 
Explanation : For the purposes of this clause the expression “directly or indirectly connected” means 
any person being an associate, subsidiary or inter-connected or group company of the applicant in case 
of the applicant being a body corporate;”

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 42 
 
 (e) The applicant, 27[its] partner, director or principal officer is not involved in any 
litigation connected with the securities market which has an adverse bearing on the 
business of the applicant; 
 (f) The applicant, 28[its] director, partner or principal officer has not at any time been 
convicted for any offence involving moral turpitude or has been found guilty of any 
economic offence; 
29 [***] 
30[(gg) the applicant is a fit and proper person;] 
 (h) grant of certificate to the applicant is in the interest of investors 31[;] 
 32[(i)  the conditions as specified by the Board, in case the applicant is directly or indirectly 
connected with a person already registered with the Board under these regulations. 
  Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, -  
(i) the expression “directly or  indirectly connected” with reference to  any 
person means an associate or subsidiary or inter-connected or group 
company of the applicant, in case of the applicant being a body corporate; 
(ii) the certificate of registration granted to a merchant banker connected 
directly or indirectly with another merchant banker prior to the 
commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 shall continue to be valid.] 
 
33[Criteria for fit and proper person. 
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the merchant banker is a fit 
and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]  
 
34[Capital adequacy requirement. 
                                                                                                                                            
26 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. Prior to the substitution, clause (d) read as under: 
“(d) The applicant fulfils the capital adequacy requirement specified in regulation 7;” 
27 The word “his” substituted by the word “its” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. 
28 The word “his” substituted by the word “its” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. 
29 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 
w.e.f., 29.11.2024. Prior to its omission, clause (g) read as under: 
“(g) The applicant has the professional qualification from an institution recognised by the Government in 
finance, law or business management;” 
30 Clause (gg) to regulation 6 was inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997 w.e.f., 09.12.1997 
31 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026 for the symbol “.”. 
32 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
33 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Criteria for fit and Proper Person Regulations, 
2004) w.e.f. 10-3-2004. 
34 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. Prior to the substitution, regulation 7 read as under: 
“Capital adequacy requirement. 
7. The capital adequacy requirement referred to in clause (d) of regulation 6 shall be a net worth of not less 
than five crore rupees. 
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation, “net worth” means the sum of paid-up capital and free 
reserves of the applicant at the time of making application under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 3.”

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 42 
 
7. (1) The capital adequacy requirement referred to in clause (d) of regulation 6 shall be a 
net worth of not less than– 
(i) fifty crore rupees for Category I merchant banker, and  
(ii) ten crore rupees for Category II merchant banker: 
Provided that the capital adequacy requirement for a merchant banker that already 
holds a certificate of registration under these regulations shall be complied with, in the 
manner and within such time, as may be specified by the Board. 
(2) A merchant banker that fails to meet the minimum net worth requirement specified in 
sub-regulation (1), without prejudice to any action that may be taken by the Board, shall 
not undertake any fresh permitted activity, till such time it complies with the requirement.   
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation, “net worth”, –  
(a)     in case of a body corporate, shall have the same meaning assigned to it 
under sub-section (57) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 
2013); and 
(b)      in case of a limited liability partnership, shall mean the sum of the partners’ 
contribution (fixed) plus reserves and surplus.] 
 
   35[Liquid net worth requirement. 
7A. (1) The liquid net worth requirement referred to in clause (d) of regulation 6 shall be 
a net worth of not less than– 
(i) twelve crore fifty lakh rupees for Category I merchant banker, and  
(ii) two crore fifty lakh rupees for Category II merchant banker: 
Provided that the liquid net worth requirement for a merchant banker that already 
holds a certificate of registration under these regulations shall be complied with, in the 
manner and within such time, as may be specified by the Board. 
(2) A merchant banker that fails to meet the minimum liquid net worth requirement 
specified in sub-regulation (1), without prejudice to any action that may be taken by the 
Board, shall not undertake any fresh permitted activity, till such time it complies with the 
requirement.   
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation, “liquid net worth” shall mean the net 
worth that is deployed in unencumbered liquid assets, as may be specified by the Board 
and the expression “liquid assets” shall mean low risk assets that can be converted into 
cash in a short period of time such as cash, fixed deposits, government securities, money 
markets instruments, treasury bills, repo on government securities and acceptable 
marketable securities with applicable haircut.] 
 
 
 
36[Grant of certificate of 37[***]registration. 
                                                
35 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
36 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011. Prior to the substitution the regulation 8 as amended by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1997 w.e.f. 09-12-1997, read as under:  
“8. Procedure for registration. 
(1) The Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall grant a certificate in Form B. 
(2) and (3) ***Omitted. 
(4) On the grant of a certificate the applicant shall be liable to pay the fees in accordance with Schedule II”

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 42 
 
8.(1) The Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall grant a certificate of 
38[***] registration in Form B and shall send an intimation to the applicant. 
(2) 39[ The certificate of registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid unless 
it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.]  
(3) 40[The merchant banker who has already been granted certificate of registration by the 
Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in 
terms of sub-regulation (1).]  
(4) On the grant of a certificate of 41[***] registration the merchant banker shall be liable 
to pay the fee in accordance with Schedule II of these regulations.] 
 
8A 42[***]  
                                                                                                                                            
37 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
38 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
39 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of 
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution, sub-
regulation (2) read as under: 
“(2) The certificate of initial registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid for a period of five 
years from the date of its issue to the applicant.” 
40 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of 
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution, sub-
regulation (3) read as under: 
“The merchant banker who has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the 
commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011, and has not completed a period of three years, shall be deemed to have been granted a 
certificate of initial registration for a period of five years from the date of its certificate of registration, 
subject to payment of fee for the remaining period of two years, as prescribed in Schedule II of these 
regulations.” 
“The certificate of initial registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid for a period of five 
years from the date of its issue to the applicant.” 
41 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
42 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission regulation 8A which 
was  
inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011, read as under: 
“8A. Grant of certificate of permanent registration.  
(1) The merchant banker who has been granted or deemed to have been granted a certificate of initial 
registration under regulation 8, may, three months before the expiry of the period of certificate of initial 
registration, make an application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration in Form A .   
(2) The merchant banker who has already been granted a certificate of registration by the Board and has 
completed a period of five years , on the date of commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, may, three months before the expiry of validity 
of certificate of registration or before, make an application for grant of a certificate of permanent 
registration in Form A.  
(3) An application under sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable 
application fee as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.  
(4) The application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration shall be accompanied by details of the 
changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted to the Board while seeking initial

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 42 
 
 
9 43[***] 
 
44[Conditions of registration. 
9A. (1) 45[Registration granted under regulation 8] shall be subject to the following 
conditions, namely:— 
 (a) where the merchant banker proposes 46[change in control], it shall obtain prior 
approval of the Board for continuing to act as such after the change; 
 (b) 47[it shall pay the fees for registration, in the manner provided in these regulations;] 
                                                                                                                                            
registration or renewal, as the case may be, and a declaration stating that no changes other than those as 
mentioned in such details have taken place.  
(5) The application for permanent registration made under sub-regulation (1) or (2) shall be dealt with in the 
same manner as if it were a fresh application for grant of a certificate of initial registration.   
(6) The Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall grant a certificate of permanent 
registration in Form B and shall send an intimation to the applicant.  
(7) On the grant of a certificate of permanent registration the merchant banker shall be liable to pay the fee 
in accordance with Schedule II of these regulations.]” 
43 Regulation 9 was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 5-7-2011. Prior to omission, regulations 9 as amended by Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997 w.e.f,  09.12.1997, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998 w.e.f, 21-01-
1998,  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006 
w.e.f. 7-9-2006 and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 26-8-2009, read as under: 
“9. (1) Three months before the expiry of the period of certificate, the merchant banker may, if he so 
desires, make an application for renewal in Form A. 
(1A) An application for renewal made under sub-regulation (1) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable 
application fee as specified in Schedule II. 
(1B) The application for renewal under sub-regulation (1) shall be accompanied by details of the changes 
that have taken place in the information that was submitted to the Board while seeking registration or earlier 
renewal, as the case may be, and a declaration stating that no changes other than those as mentioned in such 
details have taken place. 
(2) The application of renewal, under sub-regulation (1), shall be dealt with in the same manner as if it were 
a fresh application for grant of a certificate : 
Provided that in the case of an application for renewal of certificate of registration, the provisions of clause 
(a) of regulation 6 shall not be applicable up to June 30, 1998. 
(3) The Board on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible for renewal of certificate shall grant a 
certificate in Form B and sent an intimation to the applicant. 
(4) & (5) -Omitted 
(6) On the grant of a certificate the applicant shall be liable to pay the fees in accordance with Schedule II.” 
44 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2006. w.e.f. 7-9-2006. 
45 Substituted for the words “Any 45[initial registration] granted under regulation 8 or any 45[permanent 
registration granted under regulation 8A” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In 
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.  
Prior to the above, the words “initial registration” was substituted for “registration” and the words 
“permanent registration granted under regulation 8A” was substituted for the words “renewal granted under 
regulation 9” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 5-7-2011. 
46 Substituted for “to change its status or constitution” by the (Change in conditions of Registration of 
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011. w.e.f. 19-04-2011.  
47 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of 
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution clause (b) 
read as udner

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 42 
 
 (c) it shall take 48[all] steps for redressal of 49[the] grievances of the investors within 
50[twenty-one calendar days] of the date of the receipt of the complaint 51[***]; 
52 [(d) it shall maintain capital adequacy requirements specified in regulation 7 at all times;] 
   53[(da) it shall maintain liquid net worth requirements specified in regulation 7A at all 
times;] 
 (e) it shall abide by the regulations made under the Act in respect of the activities 
carried on by it as merchant banker. 
54[(f) it shall intimate the Board of the details of any change in information submitted while 
seeking registration within seven working days of such change55[;]]  
56[(g) where the merchant banker is acting as an underwriter, it shall enter into a valid 
agreement with the body corporate on whose behalf it is acting as an underwriter and 
shall abide by the regulations made under the Act in respect of the activities carried 
on by it as underwriter57[;]] 
58[(h) it shall undertake only such activities as specified by the Board under these 
regulations from time to time; 
(i)   it shall not outsource its core merchant banking activities, namely,- 
(i) due diligence activities; 
(ii) preparation of offer related document; and 
(iii) any other activity as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
    Provided that a merchant banker that already holds a certificate of 
registration under these regulations shall ensure compliance with this clause, in the 
manner and within such time, as may be specified by the Board;  
                                                                                                                                            
“(b) it shall pay the fees for 47[initial registration or permanent registration], as the case may be, in the 
manner provided in these regulations;” 
Prior to the above, the words “initial registration or permanent registration” were substituted for the words 
“registration or renewal” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 5-7-2011. 
48 The word “adequate” substituted by the word “all” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024.  
49 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 
w.e.f., 29.11.2024.  
50 Substituted for “one month” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance 
Redressal Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023. 
51 The words and symbol “and keep the Board informed about the number, nature and other particulars of 
the complaints received” omitted by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. 
52 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. Prior to the substitution, clause (d) read as under: 
“(d) it shall maintain capital adequacy requirements specified in regulation 7 at all times during the 
period of the;” 
53 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
54 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. Prior to its substitution, clause (f) read as under: 
“(f) it shall immediately intimate the Board, details of changes that have taken place in the information 
that was submitted, while seeking registration.” 
55 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026 for the symbol “.”. 
56 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Banker) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 30-03-2021 
57 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026 for the symbol “.”. 
58 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026.

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 42 
 
(j) it shall generate minimum revenue, as may be specified by the Board, from 
permitted    activities: 
   Provided that the certificate of registration granted to a merchant banker under 
these regulations may not be cancelled if it is not able to generate minimum revenue 
due to certain circumstances(s) as may be specified by the Board from time to time; 
(k) the employees referred to in clause (b) of regulation 6 and the compliance officer 
shall possess such certification(s) as may be specified by the Board: 
    Provided that in case of a merchant banker that already holds a certificate 
of registration under these regulations, the employees referred to in clause (b) of 
regulation 6 and the compliance officer shall obtain such certification(s) within such 
time as may be specified by the Board.] 
(2) Nothing contained in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) shall affect the obligation to 
obtain a fresh registration under section 12 of the Act in cases where it is applicable. 
 
59[9B ***] 
 
   60[Requirement of minimum revenue generation. 
9C. The merchant banker shall ensure that it generates minimum revenue, as specified by 
the Board, from activities specified under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 13A of these 
regulations:  
Provided that this regulation shall not apply to a merchant banker who manages 
only the issuance of the following securities, -  
(i) listed or proposed to be listed non-convertible securities, securitized debt 
instruments, security receipts, municipal debt securities, commercial papers; or  
(ii) listed or proposed to be listed units of a REIT or an InvIT.] 
 
Procedure where registration is not granted. 
10. 61[(1) Where an application for grant of a certificate of registration under regulation 3 
does not satisfy the criteria set out in regulation 6, the Board shall reject the application 
after giving an opportunity of being heard.] 
62[(2) The refusal  to grant registration, shall be communicated by the Board within thirty 
days of such refusal to the applicant stating therein the grounds on which the application 
has been rejected.] 
                                                
59  Omitted by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011. Prior to the substitution the regulation read as under: 
“ Period of validity of certificate. 
9B. The certificate of registration granted under regulation 8 and its renewal granted under regulation 9, 
shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of its issue to the applicant.”  
60 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
61 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of 
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution, sub-
regulation (1) read as under: 
“(1) Where an application for grant of a certificate 61[of initial registration under regulation 3 or of 
permanent registration under regulation 8A] does not satisfy the criteria set out in regulation 6, the Board 
may reject the application after giving an opportunity of being heard.” 
Prior to this the words “of initial registration under regulation 3 or of permanent registration under 
regulation 8A” were substituted for the words “under regulation 3 or of renewal under regulation 9” by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05-07-
2011.

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 42 
 
(3) Any applicant may, being aggrieved by the decision of the Board under sub-regulation 
(1), apply within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of such intimation to the 
Board for reconsideration of its decision. 
(4) The Board shall reconsider an application made under sub-regulation (3) and 
communicate its decision as soon as possible in writing to the applicant. 
 
63[11. Effect of refusal to grant certificate of permanent registration.  
Any applicant, whose application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration has 
been refused by the Board, on and from the date of receipt of the communication, shall 
not carry on any activity as a merchant banker: 
Provided that the Board may, in the interest of investors in the securities market, permit 
the merchant banker to carry on activities undertaken prior to the receipt of the intimation 
of refusal subject to such condition as the Board may specify.] 
 
Payment of fees and the consequences of failure to pay fee. 
12. (1) Every applicant eligible for grant of a certificate shall pay such fees in such 
manner and within the period specified in Schedule II. 
64[(2) Where the merchant banker fails to pay such fees as provided in sub-regulation (1), 
without prejudice to any other action that may be taken by the Board, the merchant 
banker shall not undertake any new activity till such time the fees is paid by the merchant 
                                                                                                                                            
62 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of 
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution, sub-
regulation (s) read as under: 
“(2) The refusal to grant 62[initial registration or permanent registration, as the case may be,] shall be 
communicated by the Board within thirty days of such refusal to the applicant stating therein the grounds on 
which the application has been rejected.” 
Prior to this the words “initial registration or permanent registration, as the case may be,” were substituted 
for the word “registration” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011. 
63 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission, the regulation  was 
substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011 and read as under: 
“11. Effect of refusal to grant certificate of permanent registration.  
Any applicant, whose application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration has been refused by the 
Board, on and from the date of receipt of the communication, shall not carry on any activity as a merchant 
banker: 
Provided that the Board may, in the interest of investors in the securities market, permit the merchant 
banker to carry on activities undertaken prior to the receipt of the intimation of refusal subject to such 
condition as the Board may specify.” 
 
- Prior to substitution by the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Merchant Bankers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011, the regulation read as under: 
“ Effect of refusal to grant certificate. 
11. Any merchant banker whose application for a certificate has been refused by the Board shall, on and 
from the date of the receipt of the communication under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 10, cease to carry 
on any activity as merchant banker.” 
64 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under: 
“(2) Where a merchant banker fails to pay the annual fees as provided in sub-regulation (1), read with 
Schedule II, the Board may suspend the registration certificate, whereupon the merchant banker shall cease 
to carry on any activity as a merchant banker for the period during which the suspension subsists.”

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 42 
 
banker, and shall also be liable to pay interest at 15% per annum for each month of delay 
or part thereof.] 
 
 
CHAPTER III 
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
Code of conduct. 
13. Every merchant banker shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Schedule 
III. 
 
65[Permitted Activities 
13A. (1) A merchant banker who has been granted a certificate of registration under these 
regulations shall undertake any of the following permitted activities in the securities 
market that are regulated by the Board, namely, – 
(i) managing of public issues, qualified institutions placements, rights issues of 
securities and advisory or consulting services incidental to such issues; 
(ii) managing of: 
a. acquisitions and takeovers under the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011; 
b. buy-back under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-
Back of Securities) Regulations, 2018; 
c. delisting under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; 
                                                
65 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. Prior to the substitution, regulation 13A read as under: 
“Merchant banker not to associate with any business other than that of the securities market. 
13A. No merchant banker, other than a Bank or a Public Financial Institution, who has been granted a 
certificate of registration under these regulations shall after June 30, 1998 carry on any business other than 
that in the securities market. 
Notwithstanding anything contained above, a merchant banker who prior to the date of notification of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Amendment Regulations, 1997, has entered 
into a contract in respect of a business other than that of the securities market may, if it so desires, discharge 
its obligations under such contract: 
Provided that a merchant banker who has been granted certificate of registration to act as primary 
or satellite dealer by Reserve Bank of India, may carry on such business as may be permitted by the 
Reserve Bank of India. 
Provided further that a merchant banker, that has been granted a certificate of registration under 
these regulations, shall ensure market making in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018. 
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation,—  
(i) A “bank” shall mean a banking company as defined under section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949 (10 of 1949), and the corresponding new bank set up under the Banking Companies 
(Acquisition and Transfer of Undertaking) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970), and the Banking Companies 
(Acquisition and Transfer of Undertaking) Act, 1980 (40 of 1980), State Bank of India Act, 1955 
(23 of 1955) and State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 (38 of 1959). 
(ii)  A “public financial institution” shall have the same meaning as assigned to the term under sub-
section (72) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 and shall include Industrial Development 
Corporations and Financial Corporations established by the Central Government or State 
Governments, as the case may be.”

[Page 14]
Page 14 of 42 
 
d. compliances as may be required under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 in respect of any scheme of arrangement; 
e. implementation of a scheme under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021; and 
f.    advisory or consulting services incidental to the activities specified 
in clauses (a) to (e); 
(iii) underwriting activities as specified by the Board from time to time; 
(iv) private placement of listed or proposed to be listed securities on a stock 
exchange recognized by the Board and activities incidental thereto. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, ‘securities’ shall be treated as 
‘proposed to be listed’ from the date of approval of the board resolution of 
the issuer, for the issuance of such securities to be listed on a stock exchange 
recognized by the Board; 
(v) managing of international offering of securities and advisory or consulting 
services incidental to such offering; 
(vi) filing of placement memorandum of an alternative investment fund; 
(vii) issuance of fairness opinion; 
(viii) managing of secondary market transactions of securities listed on a stock 
exchange recognized by the Board and activities incidental thereto; 
(ix) market making in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; and 
(x) any other activity as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
 
(2) A merchant banker may also undertake –  
(i) other activities regulated by the Board in accordance with the respective 
regulations made by the Board by obtaining the relevant certificate of 
registration; and/or 
(ii) activities which fall under the purview of any other financial sector regulator 
or an authority specified by the Board, in accordance with the regulations or 
guidelines, if any, issued by such financial sector regulator or authority; 
and/or 
(iii) activities that do not fall under the purview of the Board or any other 
financial sector regulator or authority, which shall be fee-based, non-fund 
based and pertain to the financial services sector; 
on an arms-length basis through separate business units of such merchant banker, in such 
manner and subject to such other conditions as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that a person which is regulated by the Reserve Bank of India and which 
holds a certificate of registration under these regulations shall undertake the activities 
specified under sub-regulation (1) through separate business unit: 
Provided further that a merchant banker that already holds a certificate of 
registration under these regulations shall transfer the activities referred to in this sub-
regulation to separate business unit(s) within a period of six months from the date of 
coming into force of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 or within such time period as may be specified by the 
Board. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this sub-regulation, the expression “financial sector 
regulator” shall mean an authority or body constituted under any law for the time being in 
force to regulate services or transactions in the financial sector and includes the Reserve 
Bank of India, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, Pension Fund

[Page 15]
Page 15 of 42 
 
Regulatory and Development Authority, International Financial Services Centres 
Authority, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India or 
such other authority as may be specified by the Board, from time to time. 
(3) A merchant banker shall ensure that the net worth specified for a merchant banker 
under these regulations is ring-fenced from any adverse impact that may arise from 
undertaking the activities specified under sub-regulation (2).  
(4) The merchant banker that does not possess the registration for valuation related 
activities from the relevant regulatory authority shall conclude the existing valuation 
assignments undertaken by it within a period of nine months from the date of coming into 
force of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025.] 
 
Maintenance of books of account, records etc. 
14. (1) Every merchant banker shall keep and maintain the following books of account, 
records and documents namely :— 
 (a) a copy of balance sheet as at the end of the each accounting period; 
 (b) a copy of profit and loss account for that period; 
 ( c) a copy of the auditor’s report on the accounts for that period 66[;] 
 (d) a statement of financial position. 
67[(e) Records and documents pertaining to due diligence exercised in pre-issue and post 
–issue activities of issue management and in case of takeover, buyback and delisting 
of securities.] 
(2) Every merchant banker shall intimate to the Board the place where the books of 
account, records and documents are maintained. 
(3) Without prejudice to sub-regulation (1), every merchant banker shall, after the end of 
each accounting period furnish to the Board copies of the balance sheet, profit and loss 
account and such other documents for any other preceding five accounting years when 
required by the Board. 
68[(4) Every merchant banker acting as an underwriter shall also maintain the following 
records with respect to—  
(i) details of all agreements entered with a body corporate on whose behalf it is acting as 
an underwriter;  
 (ii) total amount of securities of each body corporate subscribed to in pursuance of an 
agreement;  
(iii) statement of capital adequacy requirements; 
(iv) such other records as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
 
Submission of half-yearly results. 
15. Every merchant banker shall furnish to the Board half-yearly unaudited financial 
results when required by the Board with a view to monitor the capital adequacy of the 
merchant banker. 
                                                
66 Substituted for the full stop by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Second) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011  w.e.f. 16-08-2011. 
67 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Second) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011  w.e.f. 16-08-2011. 
68  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Banker) (Amendment) 
Regulations,2021 w.e.f. 30-03-2021

[Page 16]
Page 16 of 42 
 
 
69[Preservation of books of account, records and other documents. 
16. (1) The merchant banker shall preserve the books of account and other records and 
documents maintained under regulation 14 for a minimum period of eight financial years. 
(2) A merchant banker shall maintain all the data and information within the territorial 
limits of India as per the data storage and localization norms as specified by the Board 
from time to time.] 
 
Report on steps taken on auditor’s report. 
17. Every merchant banker shall, within two months from the date of the auditor’s report, 
take steps to rectify the deficiencies made out in the auditor’s report. 
 
Appointment of lead merchant bankers. 
18. 70[***] 
 
Restriction on appointment of lead managers. 
19. 71[***] 
 
72[Responsibility of the lead manager. 
20. No  lead  manager  shall  agree  to  manage  or  be  associated  with  any  issue  unless 
its responsibilities relating to the issue particularly, those of disclosures, allotment and 
refund are clearly defined, allocated and determined and a statement specifying such   
responsibilities  is disclosed in the draft offer document and offer document:  
                                                
69 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. Prior to the substitution, regulation 16 read as under: 
“Maintenance of books of account, records and other documents. 
  16. The merchant banker shall preserve the books of account and other records and documents 
maintained under regulation 14 for a minimum period of five years.” 
70 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009, w. e. f., 26-08-2009. 
71 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2006. w.e.f. 18-4-2006. Before the omission, regulation 19 read as under : 
 “Restriction on appointment of lead managers- 
19. The number of lead merchant bankers may not, exceed in case of any issue of Size of issue No. of 
Merchant Bankers  
(a) Less than rupees fifty crores Two  
(b) Rupees fifty crores but less than rupees one hundred crores Three  
(c) Rupees one hundred crores but less than rupees two hundred crores Four  
(d) Rupees two hundred crores but less than rupees four hundred crores Five  
(e) Above Rupees four hundred crores five or more as may be agreed by the board” 
72 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under: 
“Responsibilities of lead managers. 
20. (1) No lead manager shall agree to manage or be associated with any issue unless his 
responsibilities relating to issue mainly, those of disclosures, allotment and refund are clearly defined, 
allocated and determined and a statement specifying such responsibilities is furnished to the Board at 
least one month before the opening of the issue for subscription: 
Provided that, where there are more than one lead merchant bankers to the issue the responsibilities of 
each of such lead merchant bankers shall clearly be demarcated and a statement specifying such 
responsibilities shall be furnished to the Board at least one month before the opening of the issue for 
subscription.”

[Page 17]
Page 17 of 42 
 
      Provided that, where there is more than one lead merchant banker to the issue, the 
responsibilities of each of the lead merchant banker shall clearly be demarcated and a 
statement specifying such responsibilities shall be disclosed in the draft offer document 
and offer document.] 
 
 
Lead merchant banker not to associate with a merchant banker without 
registration. 
21. A lead merchant banker shall not be associated with any issue if a merchant banker 
who is not holding a certificate is associated with the issue. 
 
73[Merchant banker not to act 74[for its] associate. 
21A. (1) 75[A merchant banker, being a promoter or an associate of either the issuer of the 
securities or of a person making an offer to sell or purchase securities in terms of any of 
the regulations made by the Board, shall  not  lead  manage  any  issue  or  be  associated  
with  any activity undertaken under any of the regulations made by the Board by such 
issuer or person:] 
Provided that a merchant banker who is an associate of such issuer or person may be 
appointed, if 76[it] is involved only in the marketing of the issue or offer. 
Explanation: For the 77[purpose] of this regulation, a merchant banker shall be deemed to 
be an “associate of the issuer or person” if: 
(i)     either of them controls, directly or indirectly through its subsidiary or holding 
company, not less than 78[ten] per cent. of the  voting rights in  the other; or 
(ii)    either of them, directly or indirectly, by itself or in combination with other persons, 
exercises control over the other; or 
79[(iii) there is a common director  –  
(a) in the issuer and the merchant banker; or 
(b) in the issuer’s subsidiary or holding company and the merchant banker: 
 Provided that this clause shall not be applicable where the director 
concerned is a nominee director: 
                                                
73 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009, w. e. f., 26-08-2009. 
74 The words “as such for an” substituted with the words “for its” by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024.  
75 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under: 
“(1) A merchant banker shall not lead manage any issue or be associated with any activity undertaken 
under any regulations made by the Board, if he is a promoter or a director or an associate of the issuer of 
securities or of any person making an offer to sell or purchase securities in terms of any regulations 
made by the Board:” 
76 The word “he” substituted by the word “it” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024.  
77 The word “purposes” substituted by the word “purpose” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024.  
78 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026 for the word “fifteen”. 
79 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. Prior to its substitution, clause (iii) read as under: 
“(iii) there is a common director, excluding nominee director, amongst the issuer, its subsidiary or 
holding company and the  merchant banker.”

[Page 18]
Page 18 of 42 
 
 Provided further that this clause shall not be applicable where the director 
concerned is an independent director subject to recusal by the said independent 
director in respect of the issue from the boards of both issuer and merchant 
banker.] 
 
80[Merchant banker not to act as such in its own issue. 
21B. A merchant banker shall not lead manage its own issue or be associated with any 
other activity undertaken under any of the regulations made by the Board in respect of its 
own issue. 
 
Merchant banker not to act as such in an issue where shares are held by its key 
managerial personnel or their relatives. 
21C. A merchant banker shall not lead manage any public issue, if its directors, other key 
managerial personnel, compliance officer, employees referred to in clause (b) of 
Regulation 6, or relative(s) of the said persons, individually or in aggregate hold more 
than 0.1% of the paid up share capital or shares whose nominal value is more than 
10,00,000 rupees, whichever is lower in the issuer: 
Provided that any such holdings in the issuer through mutual funds and employee 
stock option schemes may be excluded: 
Provided further that a merchant banker whose directors, other key managerial 
personnel, compliance officer, employees referred to in clause (b) of Regulation 6, or 
relative(s) of the said persons, individually or in aggregate hold more than 0.1% of paid 
up share capital or shares whose nominal value is more than 10,00,000 rupees, whichever 
is lower in the issuer, may be appointed, if it is involved only in the marketing of the 
issue, subject to appropriate disclosures as may be specified by the Board.  
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, the term ‘relative’ in relation to an individual, 
shall include –  
(i) spouse of the person; or 
(ii) parent of the person and parent of the spouse of such person; or 
(iii) sibling(s) of the person and sibling(s) of the spouse of such person; or 
(iv) child of the person and child of its spouse; or 
(v) spouse of the person referred to at clause (iii); or 
(vi) spouse of the person referred to at clause (iv); or  
(vii) Hindu Undivided Family of the concerned person.]  
 
81[Underwriting obligations. 
                                                
80 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
81 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. Prior to its substitution, regulation 22 read as under: 
“Underwriting obligations. 
22. In respect of every issue to be managed, the lead merchant banker holding a certificate under 
Category I shall accept a minimum underwriting obligation of five per cent of the total underwriting 
commitment or rupees twenty-five lacs, whichever is less : 
Provided that, if the lead merchant banker is unable to accept the minimum underwriting 
obligation, that lead merchant banker shall make arrangement for having the issue underwritten to that 
extent by a merchant banker associated with the issue and shall keep the Board informed of such 
arrangement. 
Provided further that in any issue made in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018.” 
Provided further that in any issue made in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, the

[Page 19]
Page 19 of 42 
 
22. Merchant bankers shall engage in underwriting activities as specified by the Board 
from time to time.] 
 
82[Agreement with clients.  
22A. Every merchant banker acting as an underwriter shall enter into an agreement with 
each body corporate on whose behalf it is acting as an underwriter and the said agreement 
shall, amongst other things, provide for the following, namely—  
(i) the period for which the agreement shall be in force;  
(ii) the allocation of duties and responsibilities between the underwriter and the client  
(iii) the amount of underwriting obligations;  
(iv) the period, within which the underwriter has to subscribe to the issue after being 
intimated by or on behalf of such body corporate;  
(v) the amount of commission or brokerage payable to the underwriter;  
(vi) details of arrangements, if any, made by the underwriter for fulfilling the 
underwriting obligations.  
 
General responsibilities of a merchant banker as an underwriter.  
22B. (1) A merchant banker acting as an underwriter shall not derive any direct or 
indirect benefit from underwriting the issue other than the commission or brokerage 
payable under the agreement for underwriting entered with client.  
83[(2) At any point of time, the total underwriting obligations under all the agreements shall 
not exceed twenty times of the liquid net worth of the merchant banker: 
Provided that a merchant banker that already holds certificate of registration under 
these regulations shall comply with the requirements under this sub-regulation, within 
such time and in the manner, as may be specified by the Board.] 
84[(3) A merchant banker, if called upon, pursuant to an agreement for underwriting to 
subscribe to the securities of a body corporate, shall subscribe to the said securities prior 
to the finalisation of the basis of allotment.] 
 
Submission of due diligence certificate. 
23. 85[****] 
 
Document to be furnished to the Board. 
24. 86[****] 
                                                                                                                                            
merchant banker shall itself or jointly with other merchant bankers associated with the issue, 
underwrite at least fifteen per cent of the issue size.” 
82 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Banker) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 30-03-2021 
83 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under: 
“(2) At any point of time, the total underwriting obligations under all the agreements shall not exceed 
twenty times of the net worth of the merchant banker.” 
84 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as under: 
“(3) Every merchant banker acting as an underwriter, in the event of being called upon to subscribe for 
securities of a body corporate pursuant to an agreement for underwriting, shall subscribe to such 
securities within 45 days of the receipt of such intimation from such body corporate.” 
85 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009, w. e. f., 26-08-2009.

[Page 20]
Page 20 of 42 
 
 
Payment of fees to the Board. 
24A. 87[****] 
 
Continuance of association of lead manager with an issue. 
25. 88[****] 
 
Acquisition of 89[securities] prohibited. 
26. No merchant banker or any of its directors, partner or manager or principal officer 
90[or compliance officer or employees referred to in clause (b) of regulation 6] shall either 
on their respective accounts or through their associates or relatives, enter into any 
transaction in securities of bodies corporate on the basis of unpublished price sensitive 
information obtained by them during the course of any professional assignment either 
from the clients or otherwise. 
 
91[Information to the Board. 
27. Every merchant banker shall submit to the Board the following information as a part of 
the periodic report as specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 28 –  
(i) complete particulars of any transaction for acquisition of securities of any 
body corporate whose issue is being managed by it; 
(ii) complete particulars of any transaction for acquisition of securities made in 
pursuance of underwriting or market making obligations in accordance with 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018;  
(iii) any other information as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
 
 
Disclosures to the Board. 
                                                                                                                                            
86 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009, w. e. f., 26-08-2009. 
87 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009, w. e. f., 26-08-2009. 
88 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009, w. e. f., 26-08-2009. 
89 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026 for the word “shares”. 
90 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
91 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f., 03.01.2026. Prior to its substitution, regulation 27 read as under: 
“Information to the Board. 
27. A merchant banker shall submit to the Board complete particulars of the transaction for acquisition  
of  securities  of  a body  corporate  whose  issue  is  managed  by  that merchant banker, within fifteen 
days from the date of entering into such a transaction: 
Provided that complete particulars of a transaction for acquisition of securities pursuant to 
underwriting or market making obligations in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 shall be submitted to the 
Board on a quarterly basis.”

[Page 21]
Page 21 of 42 
 
2892[(1)] A merchant banker shall disclose to the Board, as and when required, the 
following information, namely:— 
 ( i) 93[its] responsibilities with regard to the management of the issue; 
 (ii) any change in the information or particulars previously furnished, which have a 
bearing on the certificate granted to it; 
(iii) the names of the body corporate whose issues 94[it] has managed or has been 
associated with; 
 (iv) the particulars relating to the breach of the capital adequacy requirement as specified 
in regulation 7; 
 ( v) relating to 95[its] activities as a manager, underwriter, consultant or adviser to an 
issue, as the case may be. 
 
96[{(2) The merchant banker shall submit a periodic report in such manner as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time}] 
 
 
97[Appointment of compliance officer. 
28A. (1) A merchant banker shall always have a compliance officer who- 
(i) at the time of appointment should be a qualified Company Secretary or have a 
graduate degree in law from a university/institution recognised by the Government; 
and  
(ii) at the time of appointment shall have a minimum of two years post qualification 
experience in activities related to corporate or secretarial compliance; and 
(iii)shall possess such certification(s) as may be specified by the Board, and in case of an 
existing compliance officer, such certification(s) shall be obtained within such time 
as may be specified by the Board:  
                                                
92 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009, w. e. f., 26-08-2009. 
93 The word “his” substituted by the word “its” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. 
94 The word “he” substituted by the word “it” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. 
95 The word “his” substituted by the word “its” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024.  
96 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012 w.e.f. 29.03.2012. Prior to this sub- regulation,  which was inserted by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009, w. e. f., 26-08-
2009, read as under : 
“The merchant banker shall submit a half yearly report for the period ending with 31st March and 30th 
September of every year, in the format specified in schedule IV, within three months from the close of the 
period to which it corresponds.” 
97 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f., 03.01.2026. Prior to its substitution, regulation 28A read as under: 
“Appointment of compliance officer. 
28A. (1) Every merchant banker shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for 
monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines, instructions, etc., 
issued by the Board or the Central Government and for redressal of investors’ grievances. 
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non-compliance 
observed by him and ensure that the observations made or deficiencies pointed out by the Board on/in 
the draft prospectus or the letter of offer as the case may be, do not recur.”

[Page 22]
Page 22 of 42 
 
       Provided that an existing compliance officer of a merchant banker may continue to 
act as such if he/she complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub-regulation (1) or has 
professional qualification with at least five years post qualification experience in 
activities related to corporate or secretarial compliance and obtains such certification(s) as 
may be specified by the Board.  
 
(2) The compliance officer appointed under sub-regulation (1) shall be- 
(i) separate and independent from the principal officer and the employees referred to 
in clause (b) of regulation 6: 
Provided that a merchant banker that already holds a certificate of 
registration under these regulations shall comply with the requirement under this 
clause within such time and in the manner, as may be specified by the Board;   
(ii) responsible for-  
(a) monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations,  
notifications,  guidelines, instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  
Central  Government; and 
(b) for redressal  of investors’ grievances. 
(3) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any 
non-compliance observed by him/her and  ensure  that  the  observations  made  or  
deficiencies  pointed out  by  the  Board  in  the  draft  prospectus or  the  letter  of  offer  
as  the  case  may  be, do not recur. 
(4) In case the office of compliance officer becomes vacant, the merchant banker shall 
appoint another compliance officer not later than three months from the date of the office 
becoming vacant: 
Provided that the merchant banker shall not fill such vacancy by appointing a 
person in an interim capacity, unless such appointment is made in accordance with 
conditions applicable in case of a regular appointment to such position and the obligations 
applicable to a regular appointee are also made applicable to such person on interim 
appointment.] 
 
98[Dispute Resolution. 
28B. All claims, differences or disputes between a merchant banker and its client arising 
out of or in relation to the activities of the merchant banker in the securities market shall 
be submitted to a dispute resolution mechanism that includes mediation and/or 
conciliation and/or arbitration, in accordance with the procedure specified by the Board.] 
 
 
99[ Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
28C. (1) The Merchant Banker shall redress investor grievances promptly but not later 
than twenty-one calendar days from the date of receipt of the grievance and in such 
manner as may be specified by the Board. 
                                                
98 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f., 04-07-2023. 
99 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023.

[Page 23]
Page 23 of 42 
 
(2) The Board may also recognize a body corporate for handling and monitoring the 
process of grievance redressal within such time and in such manner as may be specified.] 
 
CHAPTER IV 
PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION 
Board’s right to inspect. 
29. (1) The Board may appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake 
inspection of the books of account, records and documents of the merchant banker for any 
of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2). 
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows namely : 
 (a) to ensure that the books of account are being maintained in the manner required; 
 (b) that the provisions of the Act, rules, regulations are being complied with; 
 ( c) to investigate into the complaints received from investors, other merchant bankers or 
any other person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the merchant 
banker; and 
 (d) to investigate suo motu in the interest of securities business or investors interest into 
the affairs of the merchant banker. 
 
Notice before inspection. 
30. (1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 28 the Board shall give a 
reasonable notice to the merchant banker for that purpose. 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied 
that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in 
writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the merchant banker be taken up without 
such notice. 
(3) During the course of inspection, the merchant banker, against whom an inspection is 
being carried out, shall be bound to discharge 100[its] obligations as provided under 
regulation 31. 
 
Obligations of merchant banker on inspection by the Board. 
31. (1) It shall be the duty of every director, 101[***] partner, officer and employee of the 
merchant banker, who is being inspected, to produce to the inspecting authority such 
books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with the 
statements and information relating to 102[its] activities as a merchant banker within such 
time as the inspecting authority may require. 
(2) The merchant banker shall allow the inspecting authority to have reasonable access to 
the premises occupied by such merchant banker or by any other person on 103[its] behalf 
and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, documents and 
computer data in the possession of the merchant banker or any such other person and also 
                                                
100 The word “his” substituted by the word “its” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. 
101 The  word and symbol  “proprietor,”  omitted  by  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  
(Merchant Bankers)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
102 The word “his” substituted by the word “its” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. 
103 The word “his” substituted by the word “its” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024.

[Page 24]
Page 24 of 42 
 
provide copies of documents or other materials which, in the opinion of the inspecting 
authority, are relevant for the purposes of the inspection. 
(3) The inspecting authority, in the course of inspection, shall be entitled to examine or 
record statement of any principal officer, director, partner 104[***] and employee of the 
merchant banker. 
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, 105[***] partner, officer or employee of the 
merchant banker to give to the inspecting authority all assistance in connection with 
inspection which the merchant banker may reasonably be expected to give. 
 
Submission of report to the Board. 
32. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as may be possible submit, an inspection report 
to the Board. 
 
106[Action on inspection or investigation report. 
33. The Board or the Chairman shall after consideration of inspection or investigation 
report take such action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and appropriate including 
action under 107[ Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008]]. 
 
Appointment of 108[the] auditor. 
34. The Board may appoint a qualified auditor to investigate into the books of account or 
the affairs of the merchant bankers: 
Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting 
authority as are mentioned in regulation 29 and the obligations of the merchant banker in 
regulation 31 shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation. 
Explanation.—For the purposes of this regulation the expression “qualified auditor” shall 
have the same meaning as 109[provided in section 141 of the Companies Act, 2013].  
 
                                                
104 The  word and symbol  “, proprietor”  omitted  by  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  
(Merchant Bankers)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
105 The  word and symbol  “proprietor,”  omitted  by  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  
(Merchant Bankers)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
106 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry 
Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f.,27.09.2002. Prior to the substitution the regulation 
read as under: 
 “Communication of findings etc. to the merchant banker” 33. (1) The Board shall after consideration of the 
inspection report communicate the findings to the merchant banker to give him an opportunity of being 
heard before any action is taken by the Board on the findings of the inspecting authority. 
 (2) On receipt of the explanation if any, from the merchant banker, the Board may call upon the merchant 
banker to take such measures as the Board may deem fit in the interest of the securities market and for due 
compliance with the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations.” 
107 Substituted for “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry 
Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f, 26-5-2008. 
108 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. 
109 The words, symbols and figures “given in section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” were 
substituted with the words, symbols and figures “provided in section 141 of the Companies Act, 2013” by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 
29.11.2024.

[Page 25]
Page 25 of 42 
 
CHAPTER V 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 
110[Liability for action in case of default. 
35. A merchant banker who contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, Rules or 
Regulations framed thereunder shall be liable for one or more actions specified therein 
including the action under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] 
36. to 43. 111[***] 
 
 
112[CHAPTER VI 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
44. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or 
any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not 
exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation 113[***] relating to testing new 
products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory 
sandbox in the securities markets. 
 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the 
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including 
conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. 
 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live 
testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may 
be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for 
furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be 
specified by the Board.]  
 
                                                
110 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 w.e.f, 26-
5-2008. Prior to the substitution the regulation read as under: 
33. Action on inspection or investigation report – 
The Board or the Chairman shall after consideration of inspection or investigation report take action as the 
Board or Chairman may deem fit and appropriate including action under the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002.”  
Prior to the above substitution the regulation read as under: 
“33. Communication of findings etc. to the merchant banker etc.-  
(1) The Board shall after consideration of the inspection report communicate the findings to the merchant 
banker to give him an opportunity of being heard before any action is taken by the Board on the 
findings of the inspecting authority.  
(2) On receipt of the explanation if any, from the merchant banker, the Board may call upon the merchant 
banker to take such measures as the Board amy deem fit in the interest of the securities market and for 
due compliance with the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations.”  
111 The regulations 36 to 43 were omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for 
Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 w.e.f., 27.09.2002.  
112 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulation, w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 
113 The words “in technological aspects” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021.

[Page 26]
Page 26 of 42 
 
114[CHAPTER VII 
POWER TO REMOVE DIFFICULTIES 
 
45. In order to remove any difficulties in respect of the applicability or interpretation of 
these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications or guidelines in the form of 
circulars.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
114 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026.

[Page 27]
Page 27 of 42 
 
SCHEDULE I 
FORMS 
FORM A 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992 
[115[Regulation 3]] 
116[Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration] 
Name of Applicant 
117[***] 
Category I118[/II]  
Contact Name 
Telephone No.  
Instructions for Filling up Form 
1. Applicants must submit a completed application form together with appropriate 
supporting documents to the Board. 
2. It is important that this application form should be filled in accordance with the 
regulations. 
3. Application for registration will be considered provided it is complete in all respects. 
4. Answers must be typed. 
5. Information which needs to be supplied in more details may be given on separate 
sheets which should be attached to the application form. 
6. All signatures must be original. 
1. Particulars of the applicant: 
1.1 Name of Applicant : 
1.2 (A) Address—Principal Place of business/Registered Office of the Company. 
   Pin Code................................ Telephone No. .................................. Telex No. 
..................................... 
   Fax No................................. 
 (B) Address for Correspondence : 
   Pin Code................................ Telephone No. ................................ Telex No. 
................................ 
   Fax No. ................................ 
 (C) Address of Branch Offices : 
                                                
115 Substituted for “Regulation 3/ Regulation 8A” by the the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 
08-12-2016. Prior to this, the words “Regulation 3/ Regulation 8A” were substituted for the words 
“Regulation 3”  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011. 
116 Substituted for “Application for Grant of Certificate of Initial/ Permanent Registration” by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to this, the words “Application for Grant of 
Certificate of Initial/ Permanent Registration” were substituted for the words “Application for Grant of 
Certificate / Renewal of Certificate” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers)  
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011. 
117 Words “Applied for :II/III/IV” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 1997 w.e.f , 9-12-1997.  
118 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026.

[Page 28]
Page 28 of 42 
 
2. Organisation structure 
 (Organisation Chart separately showing functional responsibilities of Merchant 
Banking activities to be enclosed). 
2.1 Objectives : (To be given in brief alongwith copy of Memorandum and Articles of 
Association). 
2.2 Date and Place of Incorporation : 
Day Month/Year  Place 
  
2.3 Status of the Applicant : ( e.g., 119[body corporate,] limited company—Private/Public, 
unlimited company, 120[limited liability partnership], 121[***] others. If listed, names 
of Stock Exchanges and latest share price to be given). 
2.4 Particulars of all Directors/Partners122[***]: 
 
Name Qualification  Experience 
in 
Merchant 
Banking & 
Financial 
Ser- vices 
related 
areas 
Share in 
applicants 
firm/company 
Directorship in other companies 
          
2.5 Particulars of Key Management Personnel : (Particulars of merchant banking 
division) 
Name Qualification Experience with 
particular reference to 
merchant banking 
Date of 
appointme
nt 
Function
al areas 
          
2.6 Name and activities of associate companies/concerns 
Name of Company/ 
Firm 
Address Types of 
activity 
handled 
Nature of 
interest of 
Promoter/
Director 
Nature of 
interest of 
applicant 
company 
          
3. Business information 
3.1 History, major events and present activities : 
3.2 Details of Experience in Merchant Banking activities: 
3.3 Experience in other financial services rendered : 
                                                
119 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
120 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026 for the word “partnership”. 
121 The  word and symbol  “proprietary,” omitted  by  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  
(Merchant Bankers)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
122 The  word and symbol  “/Proprietors” omitted  by  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  
(Merchant Bankers)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026.

[Page 29]
Page 29 of 42 
 
3.4 Business handled during the last three years : 
 ( a) Issue Management 
Name of 
client 
Type of 
issue 
Size of 
Issue 
Year of 
Issue 
Times 
subscribed  
Name of 
lead 
merchant 
banker 
Functional 
responsibilit
ies 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
              
  ( b) Investment Adviser 
Name of 
client 
Year for which 
services are 
rendered 
Nature of services rendered 
      
  ( c) Underwriting 
Name of 
client 
Year of 
issue 
Type and Size 
of Issue 
Amount 
under- 
written 
%age 
of Issue 
underw
ritten 
Whether there 
was any 
development 
            
  ( d) Portfolio Management 
Name of Scheme Features of the 
Scheme 
Number of clients Total volume of 
funds managed 
Average 
returns 
          
  ( e) Consultants/Advisors to the Issue 
Name of the 
client 
Year of Issue Type and size of 
Issue 
Nature of 
services 
rendered 
Name of lead 
Merchant 
Banker(s) 
          
4. Client information 
4.1 List of major clients with address 
Name             
       Services rendered 
................................................................................................................................................
....................................... 
................................................................................................................................................
....................................... 
................................................................................................................................................
.......................................  
4.2 If the applicant is proposing to engage in Merchant Banking activities for the first 
time, the experience of key management personnel to be indicated. 
Name of Key 
Management 
Personnel 
Qualification Previous positions 
held 
Experience particularly 
in respect of merchant 
banking activities

[Page 30]
Page 30 of 42 
 
4.2aIf the applicant is proposing to engage in Merchant Banking activities for the first 
time, business plan of the company with projected volume of activities and income for 
which registration is sought to be specifically given. 
4.3 Details of infrastructure including computing facilities, equity research and data base 
available with the applicant. 
4.4 Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services rendered by the 
applicant. 
5. Financial information. 
 123[(₹ in lakhs) 
5.1 Capital structure Year prior to the 
preceding year or 
current year 
   Preceding year Current 
year 
  a)  Paid-up capital 
b) Free reserves 
(excluding 
revaluation 
reserves) 
c)Securities 
Premium Account 
Total (a) + (b) + (c) 
      
Notes: In case of a limited liability partnership firm, please indicate sum of the partners’ 
contribution (fixed) plus reserves and surplus.]  
5.2 Deployment of Resources 
(Rs. in lakhs) 
  Year prior to 
the preceding 
year  
or current year 
Prec
eding 
year 
Current 
year 
(a) Fixed Assets 
(b) Plant & Machinery and office equipment 
(c) Quoted Investments 
(d) Unquoted Investments 
  
                                                
123 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f., 03.01.2026. Prior to its substitution, sub-paragraph 5.1 read as under: 
“(Rs. in lakhs) 
5.1 Capital structure Year prior to the 
preceding year or current 
year 
      Preceding year Current 
year 
  a)  Paid-up capital 
b) Free reserves 
(excluding revaluation 
reserves) 
c) Total (a) + (b) 
      
Notes: 1. In case of partnership or proprietary concerns, please indicate capital minus drawings. 
 2.In case of partnership or proprietary concerns, please indicate the financial position, means and 
net worth of the partners.”

[Page 31]
Page 31 of 42 
 
(e) Details of Liquid Assets 
(f) Others 
(Details of investments, Loans & Advances made to Associate 
Companies/Firms where Promoters/Directors have an interest be 
separately given). 
5.3 Major Sources of Income: 
(Rs. in lakhs) 
  Year prior to the 
preceding year or 
current year 
Preceding year *Fees 
charge
d as % 
of issue 
(a) Issue Management 
(b) Underwriting 
(c) Portfolio Management 
(d) Consultant/Adviser to issue 
(e) Investment Adviser 
(f) Others 
    
 *As fees charged by the Merchant Banker may vary from issue to 
issue, please indicate range within which fees have been charged. 
5.4 Net Profit 
  Year prior to the 
preceding year or 
current year 
Preceding year Current year 
5.5 5.5  Dividend 
  Year prior to the preceding 
year or current year 
Preceding year Current year 
5.6 5.6    
Amount 
Percentage 
Note :  Please enclose three years of Audited Annual Accounts. Where Unaudited 
Reports are submitted, give reasons. If Minimum net worth requirement has been 
met after last Audited Annual Accounts. Audited Statement of Accounts of a later 
date also be submitted. 
5.6 List of major shareholders (holding 5% and above of applicant directly or along with 
associates—applicable only to limited companies). 
Shareholding as on : ............................................................................................... 
Name of 
Shareholder 
No. of shares held %age of total paid up capital of 
the company 
      
5.7 Name and address of the principal bankers of the applicant. 
5.8 Name and address of the auditors. 
6. Other information 
6.1 Details of all settled and pending disputes:

[Page 32]
Page 32 of 42 
 
Nature of dispute Name of the party Pending/settled  
      
6.2 Indictment or involvement in any economic offences by the applicant or any of the 
Directors, or key Managerial Personnel in the last three years. 
  
DECLARATION 
This Declaration must be signed by Two Directors 124[or Two Partners], as the case may 
be. 
I/We hereby apply for registration. 
I/We warrant that I/we have truthfully and fully answered the questions above and 
provided all the information which might reasonably be considered relevant for the 
purposes of my registration. 
I/We declare that the information supplied in the application form is complete and 
correct.  
For and on behalf of 
................................................................................................................................................
. 
(Name of Applicant) 
Director/Partner 125[***] Director/Partner 
Name in Block Letters Name in Block Letters 
  Date 
FORM B 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992 
[126[Regulation 8 / Regulation 8A]] 
 
127[Certificate of Registration] 
128[I. In exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1)  of  section  12  of the  
Securities  and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the regulations made 
                                                
124 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026 for the words and symbol “, Two Partners or the Sole Proprietor”. 
125 The  words  “or sole Proprietor”  omitted  by  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Merchant 
Bankers)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.01.2026. 
126 Substituted for “Regulation 8” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011.  
127 Substituted for “Certificate of Initial / Permanent Registration” by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 
w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to this, the words “Certificate of Initial / Permanent Registration” were substituted 
for the words “Certificate of Registration” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011.  
128 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f., 03.01.2026. Prior to its substitution, clause I read as under: 
“I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992, read with the rules and regulations made thereunder the Board hereby grants a 
certificate of registration to......as a merchant banker in Category I subject to the conditions in the rules 
and in accordance with the regulations to carry out the following activities: 
    *1. Management of any issue, including preparation of prospectus, gathering information relating to 
the Issue, determining financing structure, tie up of financiers, final allotment and refund of excess 
application money.

[Page 33]
Page 33 of 42 
 
thereunder, the Board  hereby  grants  a  certificate  of  registration to ............... as a  
merchant  banker  in  Category  I/II subject to the conditions in the regulations to carry 
out the activities made permissible for its Category under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992.] 
II. Registration Code for the merchant banker is MB. 
III. 129[This certificate of registration shall be valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by 
the Board.]  
 
By Order Sd/- For and on behalf of Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Place : 
Date : 
130[FORM C 
***] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                            
 *2. Investment Adviser 
 *5. Manager, consultant or Adviser to any issue including corporate advisory services. 
 *6. Consultant or Adviser. 
(*Delete whichever are not applicable)” 
129 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of 
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution, paragraph 
III as substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 2011 
w.e.f. 05-07-2011 read as under: 
“This certificate of registration shall be valid from ….. to …. / for permanent, unless suspended or 
cancelled by the Board.” 
Prior to substitution by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 2011 
w.e.f. 05-07-2011, the paragraph read as under:  
“This certificate shall be valid from..........to........and may be renewed as specified in regulation 9 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992.” 
130 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009, w. e. f., 26-08-2009.

[Page 34]
Page 34 of 42 
 
SCHEDULE II 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992 
 
[Regulation 12] 
 
FEES 
131[1. Every merchant banker shall pay a sum of 132[twenty lakh] rupees as registration fee 
at the time of grant of certificate of 133[***] registration. 
1A. 134[***]  
2. 135[A merchant banker who has been granted a certificate of registration, to keep its 
registration in force, shall pay a fee of nine lakh rupees every three years from the sixth 
year, from the date of grant of certificate of  registration or from the date of grant of 
certificate of initial registration granted prior to the commencement of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, as the case may be.]  
3.(a) The fee referred to in paragraph 1 shall be paid by the merchant banker within 
fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board under sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 8. 
136[(aa) ***] 
                                                
131 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011. Prior to the substitution the paragraphs as amended by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers)  (Amendment) Regulations, 1996 and  Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006 read as under: 
“1. Every merchant banker shall pay a sum of [ ten lakh rupees ] as registration fees at the time of the grant 
of certificate by the Board. 
2. A merchant banker to keep registration in force shall pay renewal fee of [ five lakh rupees ] every three 
years from the fourth year from the date of initial registration.” 
132 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f.23-5-2014 for the 
words "thirteen lakh thirty three thousand and three hundred". 
133 The words “initial” was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions 
Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
134 Omitted by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of 
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission, paragraph 1A 
read as under:  
“1A. A merchant banker referred to under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 8 shall pay fee for the remaining 
period of two years on pro rata basis to the fee prescribed under paragraph 2.   ” 
135 Substituted by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration 
Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution, 
paragraph 2 read as under:  
“2. A merchant banker who has been granted a certificate of permanent registration, to keep its registration 
in force, shall pay a fee of 135[nine] lakh rupees every three years from the sixth year from the date of grant 
of certificate of initial registration, or from completion of the period of renewed certificate of registration, 
as the case may be.” 
Prior to above, the word “nine” was substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014 for the word "five". 
136 Omitted by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of 
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission, clause (aa), 
as inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2011 w.e.f. 05-07-2011 read as under:  
“(aa) The fee referred to in paragraph 1A shall be paid by the merchant banker three months before 
completion of the period of three years from the date of grant of certificate of initial registration, or within a 
period of three months from the date of notification of these regulations, as the case may be.”

[Page 35]
Page 35 of 42 
 
    137[(b) The fee referred to in paragraph 2 shall be paid by the merchant banker one 
month before the expiry of the block for which the fee has been paid.] 
138[3A. The non-refundable fee payable along with an application for registration under 
sub-regulation (1A) of regulation 3 139[***] shall be a sum of 140[fifty thousand] rupees.] 
141[4. The fee specified in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3A shall be payable by the merchant 
banker by way of direct credit in the bank account through online payment using SEBI 
payment gateway.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
137 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) (Regulations) 2021 
w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to substitution the clause read as: 
“b) The fee referred to in paragraph 2 shall be paid by the merchant banker three months before expiry of 
the block for which fee has been paid.” 
138 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2006. w.e.f. 7-9-2006. 
139 The words “or an application for 139[permanent registration under sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation 
(2) of regulation 8A” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
Prior to this, the words “permanent registration under sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2) of regulation 
8A” were substituted for the words “renewal of registration under sub-regulation (1A) of regulation 9” by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05-
07-2011. 
140 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 23-5-2014 for the 
words "twenty five" 
141 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) (Regulations) 2021 
w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to substitution the clause read as: 
“4. The fees specified in paragraphs 1, 2, and 3A shall be payable by the merchant banker by way of direct 
credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or by a demand 
draft in favour of ‘Securities and Exchange Board of India’ payable at Mumbai or at the respective regional 
office.”

[Page 36]
Page 36 of 42 
 
142[SCHEDULE III 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992 
[Regulation 13] 
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR MERCHANT BANKERS 
1. A merchant banker shall make all efforts to protect the interests of investors. 
2. A merchant banker shall maintain high standards of integrity, dignity and fairness in 
the conduct of its business. 
3. A merchant banker shall fulfil its obligations in a prompt, ethical, and professional 
manner. 
4. A merchant banker shall at all times exercise due diligence, ensure proper care and 
exercise independent professional judgment. 
5. A merchant banker shall endeavour to ensure that— 
 (a) inquiries from investors are adequately dealt with; 
 (b) grievances of investors are redressed in a timely and appropriate manner; 
 ( c) where a complaint is not remedied promptly, the investor is advised of any further 
steps which may be available to the investor under the regulatory system. 
6. A merchant banker shall ensure that adequate disclosures are made to the investors in a 
timely manner in accordance with the applicable regulations and guidelines so as to 
enable them to make a balanced and informed decision. 
7. A merchant banker shall endeavour to ensure that the investors are provided with true 
and adequate information without making any misleading or exaggerated claims or any 
misrepresentation and are made aware of the attendant risks before taking any investment 
decision. 
8. A merchant banker shall endeavour to ensure that copies of the prospectus, offer 
document, letter of offer or any other related literature is made available to the investors 
at the time of issue or the offer. 
9. A merchant banker shall not discriminate amongst its clients, save and except on 
ethical and commercial considerations. 
10. A merchant banker shall not make any statement, either oral or written, which would 
misrepresent the services that the merchant banker is capable of performing for any client 
or has rendered to any client. 
11. A merchant banker shall avoid conflict of interest and make adequate disclosure of its 
interest. 
12. A merchant banker shall put in place a mechanism to resolve any conflict of interest 
situation that may arise in the conduct of its business or where any conflict of interest 
arises, shall take reasonable steps to resolve the same in an equitable manner. 
13. A merchant banker shall make appropriate disclosure to the client of its possible 
source or potential areas of conflict of duties and interest while acting as merchant banker 
which would impair its ability to render fair, objective and unbiased services. 
14. A merchant banker shall always endeavour to render the best possible advice to the 
clients having regard to their needs. 
15. A merchant banker shall not divulge to anybody either orally or in writing, directly or 
indirectly, any confidential information about its clients which has come to its knowledge, 
without taking prior permission of its clients, except where such disclosures are required 
to be made in compliance with any law for the time being in force. 
                                                
142 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Banker) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2003 w.e.f,  01.10.2003.

[Page 37]
Page 37 of 42 
 
16. A merchant banker shall ensure that any change in registration status/any penal action 
taken by the Board or any material change in the merchant banker’s financial status, 
which may adversely affect the interests of clients/investors is promptly informed to the 
clients and any business remaining outstanding is transferred to another registered 
intermediary in accordance with any instructions of the affected clients. 
17. A merchant banker shall not indulge in any unfair competition, such as weaning away 
the clients on assurance of higher premium or advantageous offer price or which is likely 
to harm the interests of other merchant bankers or investors or is likely to place such other 
merchant bankers in a disadvantageous position while competing for or executing any 
assignment. 
18. A merchant banker shall maintain arms length relationship between its merchant 
banking activity and any other activity. 
19. A merchant banker shall have internal control procedures and financial and 
operational capabilities which can be reasonably expected to protect its operations, its 
clients, investors and other registered entities from financial loss arising from theft, fraud, 
and other dishonest acts, professional misconduct or omissions. 
20. A merchant banker shall not make untrue statement or suppress any material fact in 
any documents, reports or information furnished to the Board. 
21. A merchant banker shall maintain an appropriate level of knowledge and competence 
and abide by the provisions of the Act, regulations made thereunder, circulars and 
guidelines, which may be applicable and relevant to the activities carried on by it. The 
merchant banker shall also comply with the award of the Ombudsman passed under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003. 
22. A merchant banker shall ensure that the Board is promptly informed about any action, 
legal proceedings, etc., initiated against it in respect of material breach or non-compliance 
by it, of any law, rules, regulations, directions of the Board or of any other regulatory 
body. 
23. (a) A merchant banker or any of its employees shall not render, directly or indirectly, 
any investment advice about any security in any publicly accessible media, whether real-
time or non-real-time, unless a disclosure of 143[their] interest including a long or short 
position, in the said security has been made, while rendering such advice. 
(b) In the event of an employee of the merchant banker rendering such advice, the 
merchant banker shall ensure that such employee shall also disclose the interests, if any, 
of himself, his dependent family members and the employer merchant banker, including 
their long or short position in the said security, while rendering such advice. 
24. A merchant banker shall demarcate the responsibilities of the various intermediaries 
appointed by it clearly so as to avoid any conflict or confusion in their job description. 
25. A merchant banker shall provide adequate freedom and powers to its compliance 
officer for the effective discharge of the compliance officer’s duties. 
26. A merchant banker shall develop its own internal code of conduct for governing its 
internal operations and laying down its standards of appropriate conduct for its employees 
and officers in carrying out their duties. Such a code may extend to the maintenance of 
professional excellence and standards, integrity, confidentiality, objectivity, avoidance or 
resolution of conflict of interests, disclosure of shareholdings and interests, etc. 
27. A merchant banker shall ensure that good corporate policies and corporate 
governance are in place. 
                                                
143 The word “his” substituted by the word “their” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024.

[Page 38]
Page 38 of 42 
 
28. A merchant banker shall ensure that any person it employs or appoints to conduct 
business is fit and proper and otherwise qualified to act in the capacity so employed or 
appointed (including having relevant professional training or experience). 
29. A merchant banker shall ensure that it has adequate resources to supervise diligently 
and does supervise diligently persons employed or appointed by it in the conduct of its 
business, in respect of dealings in securities market. 
30. A merchant banker shall be responsible for the Acts or omissions of its employees and 
agents in respect of the conduct of its business. 
31. A merchant banker shall ensure that the senior management, particularly decision 
makers have access to all relevant information about the business on a timely basis. 
32. A merchant banker shall not be a party to or instrument for— 
 (a) creation of false market; 
 (b) price rigging or manipulation; or 
 ( c) passing of unpublished price sensitive information in respect of securities which are 
listed and proposed to be listed in any stock exchange to any person or intermediary 
in the securities market.] 
144[33. A merchant banker or any of its directors, partners or manager having the 
management of the whole or substantially the whole of affairs of the business, shall 
not either through its account or their respective accounts or through their associates 
or family members, relatives or friends indulge in any insider trading.  
34. A merchant banker acting as an underwriter shall not make any statement, either oral 
or written, which would misrepresent— 
       (a) the services that the underwriter is capable of performing for its client, or has 
rendered to any other issuer company; 
       (b) 145[its] underwriting commitment.  
35. A merchant banker acting as an underwriter shall not indulge in any unfair 
competition, which is likely to be harmful to the interest of other entities acting as 
underwriters carrying on the business of underwriting or likely to place such other 
underwriters in a dis-advantageous position in relation to the underwriter while 
competing for, or carrying out any assignment.] 
 
146[****] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
144 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Banker) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 30-03-2021 
145 The word “his” substituted by the word “its” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f., 29.11.2024. 
146 Omitted  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2012 w.e.f. 29.03.2012. Prior to the omission, the schedule was substituted by  the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f., 26-08-2009.

[Page 39]
Page 39 of 42 
 
Note: 
 
1.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) 
Regulations, 1992 were published in the  Gazette  of  India  on  December 
22, 1992  vide  notification  No. LE/11112/92. 
 
2.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) 
Regulations, 1992 was amended-   
 
a. on September 7, 1995 by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Merchant Bankers) Amendment Regulations, 1995 vide No. 
SEBI/LE/1/9/95; 
 
b. on November 28, 1995 by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Payment of Fees) Amendment Regulations, 1995 vide No. 
S.O. 939 (E); 
 
c. on June 6, 1996 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) Amendment Regulations, 1996 vide 
SEBI/LE/III/5/96; 
 
d. on December 9, 1997 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) Amendment Regulations, 1997 vide No. S.O. 
837 (E); 
 
e. on December 15, 1997 by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Merchant Bankers) Amendment Regulations, 1997 vide No. S. 
O. 869(E); 
 
f. on January 21, 1998 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) Amendment Regulations, 1998 vide No. S.O. 74 
(E); 
 
g. on September 30, 1999 by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999 vide No. 
S.O. 799 (E); 
 
h. on November 17, 1999 by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Merchant Bankers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 1999 
vide No. S.O. 1119 (E); 
 
i. on March 28, 2000 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2000 vide No. S.O. 278 (E); 
 
j. on May 29, 2001 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Investment Advice by Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2001 vide No. S.O. 476 (E); 
 
k. on September 27, 2002 by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and

[Page 40]
Page 40 of 42 
 
Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 vide No. S.O. 1045 (E); 
 
l. on October 1, 2003 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003 vide No. S.O. 
1154(E); 
 
m. on March 10, 2004 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Criteria for Fit and Proper Person) Regulations, 2004 vide S.O. No. 
398(E); 
 
n. on April 18, 2006 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006 vide No. S.O. 
560 (E); 
 
o. on May 3,2006by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006 vide 
No. S.O. 640 (E); 
 
p. on September 7, 2006 by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Merchant Bankers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2006 
vide No. S.O. 1448 (E); 
 
q. on May 28, 2007 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2007 vide 
Notification No.11/LC/GN/2007/2517; 
 
r. on March 31, 2008 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 vide F. No. 
11/LC/GN/2008/21669; 
 
s. on May 26, 2008 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries)Regulations, 2008 vide Notification No. LAD-
NRO/GN/2008/11/126538; 
 
t. on August 26, 2009 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 
vide Notification No. LAD/ NRO/GN/2009-10/15/174471; 
 
u. on April 13, 2010 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2010 vide 
Notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2010-11/04/1109; 
 
v. on April 19, 2011 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011 vide Notification No. LAD/ 
NRO/GN/ 2011-12/03/12650; 
 
w. on July 5, 2011 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 vide 
Notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/09/21233;

[Page 41]
Page 41 of 42 
 
x. on August 16, 2011 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2011 vide 
Notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/17/26149; 
 
y. on March 29, 2012 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012vide 
Notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/40/7335; 
 
z. on May 23, 2014 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 vide Notification 
No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/03/1089; 
 
aa. on December 8, 2016 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016 vide Notification No. 
SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/ 2016-17/023; 
 
bb. on March 29, 2017 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) 
Regulations,2017 vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2016-
17/38; 
 
cc. on April 17, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide 
Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2020/10; 
 
dd. on March 30, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Banker) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide Notification 
No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/13; 
 
ee. on May 5, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) 
(Regulations) 2021 vide Notification No. 
SEBI/LADNRO/GN/2021/23; 
 
ff. on August 3, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide 
Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/30; 
 
gg. on January 17, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Change in Control in Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2023 vide Notification No. SEBI/LADNRO/GN/2023/115; 
 
hh. on July 3, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 vide Notification No. 
SEBI/LADNRO/GN/2023/137; 
 
ii. on August 18, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Facilitation of Grievance Redressal Mechanism) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 vide Notification No.

[Page 42]
Page 42 of 42 
 
SEBI/LADNRO/GN/2023/146. 
 
jj. on November 29, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide 
Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/214. 
 
kk. on February 10, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Investor Charter) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide Notification 
No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/228. 
 
ll. On December 5, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Merchant Bankers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide 
Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/282.  
 
*** 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations.]
