[Page 1]
1 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT TRUSTS) REGULATIONS, 2014 
         [Amended up to April 17, 2026] 
 
No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/10/1577- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 30 read with 
Section 11 and 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), laying a 
framework for Infrastructure Investment Trusts and registration and regulation thereof, the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby, makes the following regulations, namely, — 
 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Official Gazette. 
 
Definitions 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein 
shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be 
construed accordingly,–  
(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b) “associate” of any person  1[“means “associate company” as defined under the 
Companies Act, 2013 or under the applicable accounting standards and shall also 
include”,] – 
                                                           
1 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to which it read as ‘“associate” of any person includes’.

[Page 2]
2 
 
(i)  any person controlled, directly or indirectly, by the said person;  
(ii) any person who controls, directly or indirectly, the said person;  
(iii) where the said person is a company or a body corporate, any person(s) who 
is designated as promoter(s) of the company or body corporate and any 
other company or body corporate with the same promoter(s); 
(iv) where the said person is an individual, any relative of the individual; 
(v) 2[***] 
(vi) 3[***] 
(vii) 4[***] 
(viii) 5[***]  
(c) "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established unde r 
section 3 of the Act; 
(d) “body corporate” shall have the meaning assigned to it in or under sub-section (11) 
of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
(e) “bonus issue” means additional units allotted to the unit holders, as on the record 
date fixed for the said purpose, without any cost to the unit holder; 
(f)  “certificate” means a certificate of registration granted under these regulations; 
(g) 6[(g) “change in control”, -  
                                                           
2 Sub clause (v) omitted by Securities and Exchange B oard of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to which it read as ‘where the said person is a company or a body corporate 
or an LLP, its group companies;’ 
3 Sub clause (vi) omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to which it read as ‘companies or LLPs under the same management;’  
4 Sub clause (vii) omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to which it read as ‘where the said person is an InvIT, related parties to the 
InvIT;’ 
5 Sub clause (viii) omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to which it read as ‘any company or LLP or body corporate in which the 
person or its director(s) or partner(s) holds, either individually or collectively, more than fifteen percent of its paid-up 
equity share capital or partnership interest, as the case may be;’ 
6 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 01.04.2023. Prior to substitution it read as follows: 
“(g) "change in control", means,–

[Page 3]
3 
 
(i) in case of a body corporate, -  
(A) if its shares are listed on any recognized stock exchange, shall be 
construed with reference to the definition of control in terms of regulations 
framed under clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act;  
(B) if its shares are not listed on any recognized stock exchange, shall be 
construed with reference to the definition of control as provided in sub -
section (27) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);  
(ii) in a case other than a body corporate, shall be construed as any change in its 
legal formation or ownership or change in controlling interest.  
Explanation- For the purpose of sub -clause (ii), the expression “controlling 
interest” means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of not less than 
fifty percent of voting rights or interest;] 
(h) “company” means a company as defined under sub-section (20) of section 2 of the 
Companies Act, 2013; 
(i) "completed and revenue generating project" means an infrastructure project, which 
prior to the date of its acquisition by, or transfer to, the InvIT, satisfies the following 
conditions,– 
(i) the infrastructure project has achieved the commercial operations date as 
defined under the relevant project agreement in cluding concession 
agreement, power purchase agreement or any other agreement of a similar 
nature entered into in relation to the operation of the project or in any 
agreement entered into with the lenders; 
(ii) the infrastructure project has received all the re quisite approvals and 
certifications for commencing operations; and  
                                                           
(i) In case of a company or body corporate, change in control where 'control' shall have the meaning as provided 
in sub-section (27) of Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
(ii) in any other case, change in the controlling interest. 
Explanation.─ For the purpose of sub -clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means an interest, whether 
direct or indirect, to the extent of more than fifty percent of voting rights or interest; ”

[Page 4]
4 
 
(iii) the infrastructure project has been generating revenue from operations for a 
period of not less than one year;  
(j) “concession agreement” means an agreement entered into by a person with a 
concessioning authority for the purpose of implementation of the project as 
provided in the agreement; 
(k) “concessioning authority” means the public sector concessioning authority in PPP 
projects; 
(l) “credit rating agency” means a credit rating agency registered with the Board under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 
1999; 
(m) “custodian” means a person registered with the Board under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Custodian of Securities) Regulations, 1996; 
7 [“(ma) “debt securities” shall be defined under Regulation 2(1)(e) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 
2008;”] 
  
(n) “designated stock exchange” means a recognised stock exchange in which units of 
an InvIT are listed or proposed to be listed and which is chosen by the InvIT as a 
designated stock exchange for the purpose of a particular issue of the units of the 
InvIT under these regulations: 
Provided that where one or more of such stock exchanges have nationwide trading 
terminals, the InvIT shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange: 
Provided further that the InvIT may choose a different recognised stock exchange 
as a designated stock exchange for any subsequent issue of units of the InvIT under 
these regulations; 
                                                           
7 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.

[Page 5]
5 
 
(o) "eligible infrastructure project" means an infrastructure project which, prior to the 
date of its acquisition by, or transfer to, the InvIT, satisfies the following 
conditions,– 
(i) For PPP projects,– 
(1) the Infrastructure Project is 8[a] completed and revenue 
 generating [project]9, or 
10 [“(1a) the Infrastructure Project, which has achieved commercial 
operations date and does not have the track record of revenue from 
operations for a period of not less than one year, or”] 
(2) the Infrastructure Project is a pre-COD project; 
(ii) In non-PPP projects, the infrastructure project has received all the requisite 
approvals and certifications for commencing construction of the project;  
11[(oa)  “employee unit option scheme” means a scheme under which the investment 
manager grants unit options to its employees through an employee benefit trust.  
Explanation. - For the above purpose, employees of the investment manager shall 
include all directors of the investment manager except independent directors.] 
(p) "follow–on offer” means offer of units of an InvIT to the public for subscription 
and includes an offer for sale of InvIT units by an existing unit holder to the public; 
(q) 12[***] 
(r)  “form” means any of the forms set out in the Schedule I; 
                                                           
8 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
9 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
10Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
11 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024. 
12 Sub clause (q) omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to omission it read as ‘“follow -on offer document” means 
any document by which follow-on offer is made to the public by an InvIT;’

[Page 6]
6 
 
 13[(ra) general purposes" include such identified purposes for which no specific amount is 
allocated or any amount so specified towards general purpose or any such purpose 
by whatever name called, in the draft offer document filed with the Board:  
 Provided that a ny issue related expenses shall not be considered as a part of general purpose 
merely because no specific amount has been allocated for such expenses in the 
draft offer document filed with the Board;”] 
 
(s) “governing board” in case of an LLP shall mean a grou p of members assigned by 
the LLP to act in a manner similar to the board of directors in case of a company; 
14[(sa) “group entities of the Investment Manager” means: 
(i) entities or person(s) which are controlled by the Investment Manager; 
(ii) entities or person(s) who control the Investment Manager; 
(iii) entities or person(s) which are controlled by entities or person(s) 
specified in sub-clause (ii).] 
 15 [16[(sb)] “holdco” or “holding company” means a company or LLP,- 
(i) in which InvIT holds or proposes to hold controlling interest and not 
less than fifty one per cent of the equity share capital or interest and 
which in turn has made investments in other SPV(s), which 
ultimately hold the infrastructure assets; 
(ii) which is not engaged in any other activity other than holding of the 
underlying SPV(s), holding of infrastructure projects and any other 
activities pertaining to and incidental to such holdings;”] 
                                                           
13 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
14 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investm ent Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. 
15 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
16 Clause (sa) renumbered as clause (sb) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023.

[Page 7]
7 
 
17[(saa)  “Independent director” in case of a company means a director, other than a nominee 
director of the investment manager: - 
(i) who, in the opinion of the Board of Directors of the investment manager, is a 
person of integrity and possesses relevant expertise and experience; 
(ii) who is not or was not the promoter of parties to the InvIT, its holding 
company, the subsidiary or associate 18[or a member of the sponsor group of 
the InvIT]; 
(iii) who is not related to the InvIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the InvIT, 
its holding company, the subsidiary  or associate or their promoters or 
directors; 
(iv) who, apart from receiving director's remuneration, does not have any or has 
had no material pecuniary relationship with the InvIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, 
parties to the InvIT, its holding company, the subsidiary or associate or their 
promoters or directors, during the three immediately preceding financial years 
or during the current financial year; 
(v) none of whose relatives- 
(A) is holding securities of or interest in the InvIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, , 
parties to the InvIT, their holding Company, subsidiary or associate during 
the th ree immediately preceding financial years or during the current 
financial year of face value in excess of fifty lakh rupees or two percent of 
the unit capital of the InvIT, two percent of the paid -up capital of the 
parties to the InvIT , their holding Compa ny, subsidiary or associate or 
Holdco and/or SPV respectively or such higher sum as may be specified; 
(B) is indebted to the InvIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the InvIT , its 
holding company, subsidiary or associate or their promoters or directors, 
during the three immediately preceding financial years or during the 
current financial year in excess of such amount as may be specified;  
                                                           
17 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investm ent Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 01.04.2023. 
18 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023.

[Page 8]
8 
 
(C) has given a guarantee or provided any security in connection with the 
indebtedness of any third person to the InvIT, its H oldco and/or SPV, 
parties to the InvIT, its holding company, subsidiary or associate or their 
promoters or directors, during the three immediately preceding financial 
years or during the current financial year for such amount as may be 
specified; or  
(D) has a ny other pecuniary transaction or relationship with the InvIT, its 
Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the InvIT, its holding company, subsidiary 
or associate amounting to two percent or more of its gross turnover or total 
income: 
  Provided that the pecuniary r elationship or transaction with the InvIT, its 
holdco or SPV, parties to the InvIT , its holding company, subsidiary or 
associate or their promoters, or directors in relation to points (A) to (D) 
shall not exceed two percent of its gross turnover or total income or fifty 
lakh rupees or such higher amount as may be specified from time to time, 
whichever is lower. 
(vi) who, neither himself or herself, nor whose relative(s) — 
(A) holds or has held the position of a key managerial personnel or is or has 
been an employee  of the Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the InvIT or its 
holding, subsidiary or associate or any company belonging to parties to the 
InvIT in any of the three financial years immediately preceding the 
financial year in which he/she is proposed to be appointed: 
 Provided that in case of a relative who is an employee other than a key 
managerial personnel, the restriction under this clause shall not apply for 
his/her employment; 
(B) is or has been an employee or proprietor or a partner, in any of the three 
financial years immediately preceding the financial year in which he/she 
is proposed to be appointed, of- 
(1) a firm of auditors or company secretaries in practice or cost auditors 
of the InvIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the InvIT, its holding 
company, subsidiary or associate; or

[Page 9]
9 
 
(2) any legal or a consulting firm that has or had any transaction with the 
InvIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the InvIT , its holding 
company, subsidiary or associate amounting to ten per cent or more of 
the gross turnover of such firm; 
(C) holds together with his relatives two per cent or more of the total voting 
power of the InvIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the InvIT; 
(D) is a chief executive or director, by whatever name called, of any non- profit 
organisation that receives twenty-five per cent or more of its receipts or 
corpus from the InvIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the InvIT , its 
holding company, subsidiary or associate, any of its promoters, directors 
or that holds two per cent or more of the total voting power o f the InvIT, 
its Holdco and/or SPV parties to the InvIT; 
(E) is a material supplier, service provider or customer or a lessor or lessee of 
the InvIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the InvIT , its holding 
company, subsidiary or associate; 
(vii) who is not less than 21 years of age; or 
(viii) who possesses such other qualifications as may be specified by the Board;] 
 
19[20[(sc)] “inducted sponsor” means any company or LLP or body corporate which has been 
inducted as a sponsor in accordance with sub-regulation (7) of regulation 22;] 
(t) “infrastructure” includes all infrastructure sub -sectors as defined vide notification 
of the Ministry of Finance dated October 07, 2013 and shall include any 
amendments or additions made thereof; 
(u) "infrastructure project" means any project in infrastructure sector; 
                                                           
19 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board  of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f 16.06.2020. 
20 Clause (sb) renumbered as clause (sc) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023.

[Page 10]
10 
 
21 [(ua) “initial offer” means the first offer of units of an InvIT including an offer for sale of 
the InvIT units by an existing unit holder whether through public issue or private 
placement;”] 
(v) “initial 22 [public] offer” means the first offer of units of an InvIT to the public for 
subscription and includes an offer for sale of the InvIT units by an existing unit 
holder to the public; 
(w) 23[***] 
(x) “infrastructure developer” in case of PPP projects shall mean the lead member of 
the concessionaire SPV; 
(y) “inspecting officer” means any one or more person appointed by the Board  to 
exercise powers conferred under Chapter V; 
24[(ya) “institutional investor” means -  
(i) a qualified institutional buyer; or 
                25[(ii) a family trust or an intermediary registered with the Board, having a net worth of 
more than five hundred crore rupees, as per the latest audited financial statements;]] 
(z) “investment management agreement” means an agreement between the trustee and 
the inves tment manager which lays down the roles and responsibilities of the 
investment manager towards the InvIT;  
(za) “InvIT” or 'Infrastructure Investment Trust' shall mean the trust registered as such 
under these regulations; 
                                                           
21 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
22 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) ( Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016 w.e.f 30.11.2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
23 Sub clause (w) omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to which it read as “initial offer document” means any document by which 
initial offer is made to the public by an InvIT; 
24 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
25 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 11.12.2025. Prior to substitution, it read as:  
“(ii) family trust or systematically important NBFCs registered with Reserve Bank of India or intermediaries registered 
with the Board, all with net-worth of more than five hundred crore rupees, as per the last audited financial statements”

[Page 11]
11 
 
(zb) "InvIT assets” means assets owned by th e InvIT, whether directly or through a  26 
[holdco and/ or]  SPV, and includes all rights, interests and benefits arising from 
and incidental to ownership of such assets;  
(zc) “Lead member” means the lead member of the Concessionaire SPV for PPP 
projects as defined in the project documents; 
27[(zca)  “liquid asset” means cash, units of overnight 28[***] mutual fund schemes, 29[units 
of liquid mutual fund schemes where credit risk value is at least 10 and which falls 
under the Class A-I or Class B-I in the potential risk class matrix as specified by the 
Board,] fixed deposits of scheduled commercial banks, 30[Government Securities, 
treasury bills, repo on Government Securities] and repo on corporate bonds.] 
(zd)  “listed InvIT” means an InvIT whose units are listed on a recognized stock 
exchange; 
(ze) "LLP" means a limited liability partnership as defined under the Limited Liability 
Partnership Act, 2008; 
(zf) “investment manager” means a company or LLP or body corporate which manages 
assets and investments of the InvIT and undertakes activities of the InvIT as 
specified under regulation 10; 
(zg) "NAV" or "net asset valu e” means the value of the InvIT 31[assets reduced by the 
external debt] divided by the number of outstanding units as on a particular date. 
                                                           
26 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regu lations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
27 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024. 
28 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastruc ture Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026. Prior to its omission it read as ‘or liquid’. 
29 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) ( Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026. 
30 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026. Prior to its substitution it read as ‘government securities, treasury bills, repo on 
government securities’. 
31 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.

[Page 12]
12 
 
32[Explanation. – For the purpose of calculating the number of outstanding units, 
any outstanding subordinate units shall not be included];  
(zh) “net worth” in relation to a company or a body corporate shall have  the meaning 
assigned to it under sub-section (57) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
(zi) “non-PPP project” means an infrastructure project that is not a PPP project; 
(zj) "offer document" means any document described or issued as an offer document 
including any notice, circular, advertisement or other document inviting offers 
33[through a public issue ] for the subscription or purchase of units of the 
34[***]InvIT and includes initial 35[public]offer document, follow -on offer 
document 36[“, letter of offer in case of rights issue] and any other offer document 
as may be specified by the Board; 
(zk) “parties to the InvIT” shall include the 37[sponsor groups], investment manager, 
project manager 38[(s)] and the trustee; 
(zl) “placement memorandum” means any document through which private placement 
of units of the InvIT is made; 
(zm) “PPP project” means an infrastructure project undertaken on a Public - Private 
Partnership basis between a public concessioning authority and a private SPV 
concessionaire selected on the basis of open competitive bidding or on the basis of 
an MoU with the relevant authorities; 
(zn) “pre-COD project” means an infrastructure project which,– 
                                                           
32 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 27.05.2024. 
33 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to its substitution it was read as ‘from the public’.  
34 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to its omission it read as ‘publically offered’. 
35 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
36 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
37 Substituted for the words and symbols “sponsor(s)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023.  
38 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.

[Page 13]
13 
 
(i) has not achieved commercial operation date as defined under the relevant 
project agreements including the concession agreement,  power purchase 
agreement or any other agreement of a similar nature entered into in relation 
to the operation of a project or any agreement entered into with the lenders; 
and 
(ii) has,– 
(1) achieved completion of at least fifty per cent. of the construction of 
the infrastructure project as certified by an independent  engineer of 
such project; or 
(2) expended not less than fifty per cent. of the total capital cost set forth 
in the financial package of the relevant project agreement; 
(zo) “preferential issue” means an issue of units by a listed InvIT to any select person 
or group of persons on a private placement basis and does not include an offer of 
units made through a public issue, rights issue, bon us issue, qualified institutions 
placement or any other issue as may be specified by the Board; 
 39 [(zoa) “private placement” means an issue of units by an InvIT to any select person or group of 
persons and does not include an offer of units made through a public issue; 
 (zob) “project implementation agreement" or "project management agreement” means an 
agreement between the project manager, the concessionaire SPV and the trustee 
which sets out obligations of the project manager with respect to execution of  the 
project 40[and/or management]: 
 Provided that in case of PPP projects, such obligations shall be in addition to the responsibilities 
as under the concession agreement or any such agreement entered into with the 
concessioning authority;”] 
(zp) “project manager” means 41[a company or LLP or a body corporate] designated as 
the project manager by the InvIT, responsible for achieving execution  
                                                           
39 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of In dia (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
40 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
41 Inserted ibid in place of the words “the person”.

[Page 14]
14 
 
42[/management] of the project as specified under regulation 11 and in case of PPP 
projects, shall mean the entity responsible for such execution and achievement of 
project milestones in accordance with the concession agreement or any other 
relevant project document; 
(zq) 43[“public” means any person other than: 
(i) the related party of the InvIT, its sponsor, investment manager or project 
manager; or  
(ii) any other person as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that a person specified above, who is also a qualified institutional buyer 
in an offer, shall be considered as “public” for the purpose of these regulations:  
Provided further that the sponsor, sponsor group, investment manager and project 
manager of the InvIT shall not be considered as “public” for the purpose of these 
regulations.] 
(zr)  “public issue” means issue of units by a 44[***] InvIT to the public and includes 
initial 45[public] offer and follow-on offer or any other issue made to the public as 
may be specified by the Board; 
 46[(zs)          “qualified institutional buyer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under clause 
(ss) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018]; 
                                                           
42 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
43 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trus ts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. Prior to substitution, it read as:  “ “public” for the purposes of offer and listing 
of units means any person other than related party of the InvIT or any other person as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that in case any related party to the InvIT is a qualified institutional buyer, such person shall be included 
under the term 'public';”. 
44 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regula tions, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the omission the clause read as “public issue” means issue of units by a publically 
offered InvIT to the public and includes initial offer and follow-on offer or any other issue made to the public as may 
be specified by the Board; 
45 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
46 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 11.12.2025. Prior to its substitution, it read as:  
“qualified Institutional buyer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under clause (zd) of sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of In dia (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009;”

[Page 15]
15 
 
(zt)  “qualified Institutions placement” means allotment of units by a listed InvIT to   
qualified institutional buyers on private placement basis in terms of these regulations; 
(zu) “recognised stock exchange” means any stock exchange which is recognised under 
section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); 
(zv) 47[“related parties”] shall 48[be defined under the Companies Act, 2013 or under the 
applicable accounting standards and shall also] include,– 
(i) parties to the InvIT; 
(ii) 49[***] 
(iii) 50[***]promoters, directors and partners of the persons mentioned in clause 
(i)51[***]; 
(zw) “rights issue” means an offer of units by a listed InvIT to the unit holders of the 
InvIT as on the record date fixed for the said purpose; 
(zx) “right-of-first-refusal” or "ROFR" means the right given to the InvIT by a person 
to enter into a transaction with it before the person is entitled to enter that 
transaction with any other party; 
52[(zxa) “Self-Sponsored Investment Manager” means the Investment Manager of an InvIT who 
has dual responsibilities of both the Investment Manager as well as the sponsor;] 
                                                           
47 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
48 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
49 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the omission the clause read as any unit holder holding, directly or indirectly, more 
than twenty per cent. of the units of the InvIT 
50 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment ) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the omission the clause read as associates, promoters, directors and partners of the 
persons mentioned in clause (i) and (ii); 
51 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Tr usts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the omission the clause read as associates, promoters, directors and partners of the 
persons mentioned in clause (i) and (ii); 
52 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrast ructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023.

[Page 16]
16 
 
53[54[(zxb)]  “Senior Management” means the officers and personnel of the investment manager 
who are members of its core management team, excluding  the Board of Directors, 
and shall also comprise all members of the management, one level below the Chief 
Executive Officer or Managing Director or Whole Time Director or manager 
(including Chief Executive Officer and manager, in case they are not part of the 
Board of Directors) and shall specifically include the Compliance Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer;] 
55[(zxc) “sponsor group” includes- 
(i) the sponsor(s); 
(ii) entities or person(s) which are controlled by such sponsor; 
(iii) entities or person(s) who control such body corporate; 
(iv) entities or person(s) which are controlled by entities or person(s) specified in 
clause (iii).] 
(zy) "SPV" or "special purpose vehicle" means 56[a] company or LLP,– 
i. in which 57[either] the InvIT 58[or the holdco] holds or proposes to hold controlling 
interest and not less than fifty [59one] per cent. of the equity share capital or interest:  
60[Provided that in case of PPP projects where such acquisition or holding 
is disallowe d by the Government or regulatory provisions under the 
                                                           
53 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 01.04.2023. 
54 Clause (zxa) renumbered as clause (zxb) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. 
55 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment ) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. 
56 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026. Prior to its substitution it read as ‘any’. 
57 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
58 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
59 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
60 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendm ent) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026. Prior to its substitution, the proviso read as ‘ Provided that in case of PPP 
projects where such acquiring or holding is disallowed by government or regulatory provisions under the concession

[Page 17]
17 
 
concession agreement or such other agreement, this clause shall not apply 
and shall be subject to the provisions under proviso to sub - regulation (3) 
of regulation 12;] 
ii. which holds not less than nine ty per cent. of its assets directly in 
infrastructure projects and does not invest in other SPVs; 61[***] 
62[Provided that, in respect of an SPV holding an infrastructure 
project, the conclusion or termination of the concession agreement 
or such other agreement of a similar nature shall not affect its status 
as an SPV and such an SPV shall continue to be classified as an SPV 
subject to the fulfilment of such conditions as may be specified by 
the Board; and] 
iii. which is not 63[***] engaged in any 64[***] activity other than 65[the] 
activities pertaining to and incidental to the underlying infrastructure 
projects; 
(zz) “sponsor” means any company or LLP or body corporate which sets up the InvIT 
and is designated as such at the time of application made to the Board 66[***] 67[ and shall 
include an inducted sponsor]; 
                                                           
agreement or such oth er agreement, this clause shall not apply and shall be subject to provisions under proviso to 
sub-regulation (3) of regulation 12’. 
61 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026. Prior to its omission it read as ‘and’. 
62 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026. 
63 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (In frastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the omission it read as which is not be engaged in any other activity other than 
activities pertaining to and incidental to the underlying infrastructure projects; 
64 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026. Prior to its omission it read as ‘other’. 
65 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure In vestment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026. 
66 Words “and in case of PPP projects, shall mean the infrastructure developer or a special purpose vehicle holding 
concession agreement”, omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of Ind ia (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
67 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f 16.06.2020.

[Page 18]
18 
 
     68[(zza)    “strategic investor” means, – 
a. an institutional investor; or 
b. a foreign portfolio investor not covered under sub-clause (a); or  
c. a middle layer, upper layer and top layer Non -Banking Finance Company 
registered with the Reserve Bank of India; or 
d. such entities as the Board may specify from time to time, 
who invest, either jointly or severally, not less than five per cent. of the total offer 
size of the InvIT or such amount as may be specified by the Board from time to time, 
subject to compliance with the applicable provisions, if any, of the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 and the rules or regulations or guidelines made thereunder: 
 Provided that if the entity is regulated by any financial sector regulator, the Board 
shall consult such financial sector regulator prior to specifying the entity as a strategic 
investor under sub-clause (d) of clause (zza) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2;]  
69[(zzaa)  “subordinate unit” means an instrument issued by an InvIT which can be 
reclassified as an ordinary unit;] 
                                                           
68 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 11.12.2025. Prior to its substitution, it read as: 
“‘strategic investor’ means,– 
a. an infrastructure finance company registered with Reserve Bank of India as a Non Banking Financial 
Company; 
b. a Scheduled Commercial Bank;  
c. a multilateral and/or bilateral development financial institution;  
d. a systemically important Non Banking Financial Companies registered with Reserve Bank of India;  
e. a foreign portfolio investors, 
      (f).         an insurance company registered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India;  
 g.  a mutual fund. 
   who invest, either jointly or severally, not less than five per  cent.  of the total offer size of the InvIT or 
such amount as may be specified by the Board from time to time , subject to the compliance with the 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules or regulations 
or guidelines made thereunder” 
 
69 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 27.05.2024.

[Page 19]
19 
 
(zza) “trustee” means a person who holds the InvIT assets in trust for the benefit of the 
unit holders, in accordance with these regulations; 
(zzb) "under-construction project" means an infrastructure project whether PPP or non -
PPP, which has 70[either] not achieved commercial operation date as defined under 
the relevant project agreements including the concession agreement, power 
purchase agreement or any other agreement of a similar nature entered into in 
relation to the operation of a project or in an y agreement entered into with the 
lenders 71[or has achieved commercial operation date and does not have the track 
record of revenue from operations for a period of not less than one year]; 
(zzc) “unit” 72[or “ordinary unit”] means beneficial interest of the InvIT; 
(zzd) “unit holder” means any person who owns units of the InvIT; 
(zze) 73[“valuer” means any person who is a “registered valuer” under section 247 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 or as specified by the Board from time to time.] 
                                                           
70 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regul ations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
71 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
72 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts)  (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 27.05.2024. 
73 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017. Prior to the substitution, the definition of the term “value r” read as follows: 
“valuer” means any person 73[(s)] who is a "registered valuer" under section 247 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 73[or as defined hereunder] and who has 73[/have] been appointed by the investment 
manager to undertake 73[both financial and technical] valuation of the InvIT assets: 
Provided that:- 
 73[(a) a valuer in respect of financial valuation means,- 
(i) a chartered accountant, company secretary or cost accountant who is 
in whole -time practice, or retired member of Indian Corporate Law 
Service or any person holding equivalent Indian or foreign qualification 
as the Ministry of Corporate Affairs may recognize by an order: 
Provided that such foreign qualification is acquired by Indian citizen. 
(ii) a Merchant Banker registered with the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, and who has in his employment person(s) having 
qualifications prescribed under sub -sub-clause (i) above to carry out 
valuation by such qualified persons. 
(b) a valuer in respect of technical asset valuation, means members of the following institutions 
for specific asset categories,- 
(i) Institution of Valuers;  
(ii) Institution of Surveyors (Valuation Branch); 
(iii) Institution of Government Approved Valuers; 
(iv) Practicing Valuers Association of India; 
(v) Centre for Valuation Studies, Research and Training;

[Page 20]
20 
 
(zzf) 74["value of 75[the] InvIT assets"] means 76[77[value of the assets of the InvIT]] as 
assessed by the valuer based on value of the infrastructure and other assets owned 
by the InvIT, whether directly or through 78[holdco and/or] SPV 79[***] 
(2) The words and expressions used and not defined in these regu lations, but defined in the 
Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, (42 of 1956), the Companies Act, 2013 
(18 of 2013), or any rules or regulations made thereunder, shall have the same meanings 
respectively assigned to them in those Acts, rules or regulations or any statutory modification 
or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be. 
  
                                                           
(vi) Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, UK; 
(vii) American Society of Appraisers, United States; 
(viii) Appraisal Institute, United States; 
(ix) Institute of Engineers; 
(x) Council of Architecture or the Indian Institute of Architects: 
Provided that, th e persons referred to in sub -sub-clause (i) and qualified person 
referred to in sub -sub-clause (ii) of sub -clause (a) above, shall have not less than 
five years continuous experience after acquiring membership of respective 
institutions:  
Provided further that, persons referred to in sub-sub-clauses (i) to (x) of sub-clause 
(b) above, shall have a minimum working experience of five years in relevant areas 
of valuation practice and in relation to relevant asset value and categories; and be 
citizens of India.” 
74Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as ‘value of InvIT means value of InvIT assets as assessed by 
the valuer based on value of the infrastructure and other assets owned by the InvIT, whether directly or through SPV 
excluding any debtor liabilities thereof. 
75 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
76 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as ‘value of InvIT means value of InvIT assets as 
assessed by the valuer based on value of the infrastructure and other assets owned by the InvIT, whether directly or 
through SPV excluding any debtor liabilities thereof. 
77 Substituted for the words “value of InvIT assets” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
78 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Inve stment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
79 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as ‘excluding any debtor liabilities thereof’

[Page 21]
21 
 
CHAPTER II 
REGISTRATION OF InvITs 
 
Registration of infrastructure investment trusts 
3. (1) No person shall act as an InvIT unless it has obtained a certificate of registration from 
the Board under these regulations. 
(2) An application for grant of certificate of registration as InvIT shall be made by the 
sponsor 80[on behalf of the trust] in Form A as specified in the Schedule I and shall be 
accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II.  
(3) The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, appoint any person to 
take charge of records, documents of the 81[trust] and for this purpose, also determine 
the terms and conditions of such an appointment. 
(4) The Board shall take into account requirements as specified in these regulations for 
the purpose of considering grant of registration. 
 
Eligibility criteria.  
4. (1) For the purpose of the grant of certificate to 82[a trust], the Board shall consider all 
matters relevant to the activities as an InvIT. 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, the Board shall 
consider the following, mandatory requirements namely,–  
                                                           
80 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
 
81 Substituted for the word “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastr ucture Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
82 Substituted ibid for the words “an applicant”.

[Page 22]
22 
 
(a) the applicant is 83[the sponsor on behalf of the]  trust and the instrument of 
trust is in the form of a deed duly registered in India under the provisions of 
the Registration Act, 1908; 
(b) the trust deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of InvIT in 
accordance with these regulations and includes responsibilities of the 
trustee in accordance with regulation 9; 
(c) persons have been designated as sponsor(s), investment manager and trustee 
under these regulations and all such persons are separate entities; 
(d) with regard to sponsor(s) ,– 
(i) 84[each sponsor 85[and sponsor group] shall be clearly identified in 
the application of registration to the Board and in the offer 
document/ placement memorandum, as applicable]; 
86[Provided that, for each sponsor group not less than one person 
shall be identified as a sponsor: 
Provided further that of the entities categorized as sponsor group, 
only the following entities may be considered: 
a) a person or entity who is directly or indirectly holding an 
interest or shareholding in any of the assets or SPVs or 
holdco(s) proposed to be transferred to the InvIT; 
b) a person or entity who is directly or indirectly holding units 
of the InvIT on post- issue basis; 
c) a person or entity whose experience is being utilized by the 
sponsor for meeting with the eligibility conditions required 
                                                           
83 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the applicant is ‘a’ trust and the instrument of 
trust is in the form of a deed duly registered in India under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908;  
84 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as ‘there are not more than 3 sponsors’.  
85 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. 
86 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023.

[Page 23]
23 
 
under sub -clause (iii) of clause of sub -regulation (2) of 
regulation 4 of these regulations.] 
 (ii) each sponsor has,– 
(1) a net worth of not less than Rs. 100 crore if it is a body 
corporate or a company; or 
(2) net tangible assets of value not less than Rs 100 crore in case 
it is a limited liability partnership:87[***] 
 (iii) Whether the sponsor or its associate has a sound track record in 
development of infrastructure or fund management in the infrastructure 
sector. 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this clause, ‘sound track record’ means 
experience of at least 5 years and where the sponsor is a developer, at least 
two projects of the sponsor have been completed; 
(e) with regard to the investment manager,- 
(i) the investment manager has a net worth of not less than rupees ten 
crore if the investment manager is a body corporate or a company or 
net tangible assets of value not less than ten crore rupees in case the 
investment manager is a limited liability partnership;  
(ii) 88[the investment manager has not less than five years of experience 
in fund management or advisory services or development in the 
infrastructure sector or the combined experience o f the 
directors/partners/employees of the investment manager in fund  
management or advisory services or development in the 
infrastructure sector is not less than 30 years: 
                                                           
87 Omitted “Provided that in case of PPP projects, where the sponsor is the SPV, the net worth or net tangible assets 
shall be as defined in the eligibility criteria of the project documents;”  by Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
88 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f 02.03.2020. Prior to the substitution it read as ‘the investment manager has not less than five 
years experience in fund management or advisory services or development in the infrastructure sector.’

[Page 24]
24 
 
 Provided that for computing the combined experience, only  the 
experience of the  directors/partners/employees with more than 5 
years of experience  in fund management or advisory services or 
development in the infrastructure sector shall be considered.]  
(iii) the investment manager has not less than two employees who have 
at least five years experience each, in fund management or advisory 
services or development in the infrastructure sector;  
(iv) the investment manager has not less than one employee who has at 
least five years experience in the relevant sub-sector(s) in which the 
InvIT has invested or proposes to invest;  
(v) the investment manager has not less than half of its directors in case 
of a company or members of the governing board in case of an LLP 
as independent and not directors or members of the governing board 
89[of an Investment Manager] of another InvIT90[:] 
91[Provided that if by a vacancy in the office of an independent 
director of the investment manager, the investment manager 
becomes non-compliant with such requirement, such vacancy shall 
be filled by the investment manager as follows - 
A. if such vacancy arises due to expiry of the term of office of 
the independent director, then the resulting vacancy shall be 
filled not later than the date such office is vacated; or 
B. if such vacancy arises due to any other reason, then the 
resulting vacancy shall be filled at the earliest and not later than 
three months from the date of such vacancy.] 
                                                           
89 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
90 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025. Prior to the substitution the symbol was “;”. 
91 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025.

[Page 25]
25 
 
(vi) the investment manager has an office in India from where the 
operations pertaining to the InvIT is proposed to be conducted;  
(vii) the investment manager has entered into an investment management 
agreement with the trustee which provides for the responsibilities of 
the investment manager in accordance with regulation 10; 
 (f) 92[ the project manager has been identified and shall be appointed 
in terms of the project implementation/ management agreement: 
 Provided that the project implementation agreement/ management agreement 
shall be submitted along with the draft offer document/ or the 
placement memorandum; 
(g) with regard to the trustee,– 
(i) the trustee is registered with the Board under Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 
and is not an associate of the sponsor(s) or 93[investment] manager; 
and 
(ii) the trustee has such wherewithal with respect to infrastructure, 
personnel, etc. to the satisfaction of the Board and in accordance 
with circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board; 
94[(h) subject to the provisions of Chapter IVA of these regulations, there shall be 
only one class of units and all units shall carry equal voting rights and 
distribution rights associated with such units.”;] 
                                                           
92 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the project implementation agreement has been 
entered into between the project manager, the concessionaire SPV and the trustee acting on behalf of the InvIT which 
sets out obligations of the project manager with respect to execution of the project:  
Provided that in case of PPP projects, such obligations shall be in accordance with the concession agreement or any 
such agreement entered into with the concessioning authority; 
93 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
94 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 27.05.2024. Prior to substitution, it read as below: 
“(h) no unit holder of the InvIT enjoys 94[superior] voting or any other rights over another unit holder 94[and there 
shall not be multiple classes of units of InvITs:

[Page 26]
26 
 
 (i) 95[***] 96[the unitholder(s) holding not less than ten percent of the total 
outstanding units of the InvIT, either individually or collectively, shall - 
(i) be entitled to nominate one director on the board of directors of 
the Investment Manager, in such manner as may be specified by the 
Board: 
Provided that the director so nominated shall recuse from voting on 
any transaction where s uch nominee director or associate of such 
nominee director or the unitholder who nominated such nominee 
director or associate of such unitholder is a party; 
(ii) comply with stewardship code specified in Schedule VIII of 
these regulations;] 
(j) the applica nt has clearly described at the time of registration, details 
pertaining to proposed activities of the InvIT;  
(k) the 97[InvIT and parties to the InvIT] are fit and proper persons based on the 
criteria as specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; 
                                                           
 Notwithstanding the above, subordinate units may be issued only to the sponsors and its as sociates, where 
such subordinate units shall carry only inferior voting or any other rights compared to other units 94[:]] 
94[Provided that unitholder(s) holding not less than ten percent of the total outstanding units of the InvIT, either 
individually or co llectively, shall be entitled to nominate one director on the board of directors of the Investment 
Manager, in the manner as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided further that the director so nominated shall recuse from voting on any transaction where such nominee 
director or associate of such nominee director or the unitholder who nominated such nom inee director or associate 
of such unitholder is a party: 
Provided further that any unitholder holding not less than ten percent of the total outstanding units of the InvIT shall 
comply with stewardship code specified in Schedule VIII of these regulations. ” 
95 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as here shall not be multiple classes of units of InvITs;  
96 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 27.05.2024. 
97 Substituted for the words “applicant, sponsor(s), investment manager, project manager(s) and trusts” by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 
10.04.2018.

[Page 27]
27 
 
(l) whether any previous application for grant of certificate made by the 
98[InvIT or the parties to the InvIT or their directors/members of governing 
board] has been rejected by the Board;  
(m) whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other 
regulatory authority against the 99[InvIT or the parties to the InvIT or their 
directors/members of governing board] under any Act or the regulations or 
circulars or guidelines made thereunder. 
 
Furnishing of further information, clarification 
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish any such information or clarification 
as may be required by it for the purpose of processing of the application. 
(2) The Board, if it so desires, may require the applicant or its authorized representative(s) 
to appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of 
certificate. 
 
Procedure for grant of certificate  
6. (1) The Board on being satisfied that the applicant fulfils, the requirements specified in 
regulation 4 shall send intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of 
registration fees as specified in Schedule II, grant certificate of registration in Form B 
under Schedule I: 
Provided that the Board may grant in -principle approval to the  100[trust], where it 
deems fit and on satisfaction of all requirements as specified in regulation 4, grant 
final registration to the 101[trust]. 
                                                           
98 Substituted for the words “applicant or any related party” by the SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017.  
99 Substituted ibid for the words “applicant or any related party”.  
100 Substituted for the word “applicants” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
101 Substituted ibid for the word “applicant”.

[Page 28]
28 
 
 (2) The registration may be granted with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate 
by the Board. 
 
Conditions of certificate 
7. The certificate granted under regulation 6 shall, inter-alia, be subject to the following 
conditions,- 
(a) the InvIT shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations;  
(b) the InvIT shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or 
particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or 
misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in the 
information already submitted; 
(c) The InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall satisfy  with the conditions specified 
in regulation 4 at all times; 
(d) The InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall comply, at all times, with the Code of 
conduct as specified in the Schedule VI, wherever applicable. 
 
102[***] 
Procedure where registration is refused  
                                                           
102 Regulation 7A omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. Before the omission, the regulation read as unde r: 
“ De-classification of the status of sponsor 
7A (1) De-classification of the status of a sponsor(s) of an InvIT whose units have been listed on the stock 
exchanges for a period of three years shall be permitted upon receipt of an application from the In vIT and 
subject to compliance with the following conditions: 
(a)The unit holding of such sponsor and its associates taken together does not exceed 10% of the outstanding 
units of the InvIT; 
(b)The investment manager of the InvIT is not an entity controlled by such sponsor or its associates; 
(c)Approval of unit holders has been obtained in accordance with sub-regulation 4 of Regulation 22.”

[Page 29]
29 
 
8. (1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the 
opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the 103[trust], it may reject the 
application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the 
applicant within thirty days of such decision. 
 
CHAPTER III 
RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARTIES TO THE InvIT, VALUER AND 
AUDITOR 
 
Rights and responsibilities of trustee 
9. (1) The trustee shall hold the InvIT assets in the name of the InvIT for the benefit 
of the unit holders in accordance with the trust deed and these regulations. 
(2) The trustee shall enter into an investment management agreement with the 
investment manager on behalf of the InvIT. 
(3) The trustee shall oversee activities of the investment manager in the interest of 
the unit holders, ensure that the investment manager complies with regulation 
10 and shall obtain compliance certificate from the investment manager, in the 
form as may be specified, on a quarterly basis. 
(4) The trustee shall oversee activities of the project manager 104[***]with respect 
to compliance with these regulations and the  105[project implementation 
agreement/] project management agreement and shall obta in compliance 
                                                           
103 Substituted for the word “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
104 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as (4) The trustee shall oversee a ctivities of the project 
manager ‘other than that relating with revenue streams from the projects’ with respect to compliance with these 
regulations and the project management agreement and shall obtain compliance certificate from the Project manager, 
in the form as may be specified, on a quarterly basis. 
105 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.

[Page 30]
30 
 
certificate from the Project manager, in the form as may be specified, on a 
quarterly basis. 
(5) The trustee shall ensure that the investment manager complies with reporting 
and disclosures requirements in accordance with these regulations and in  case 
of any delay or discrepancy, require the investment manager to rectify the same 
on an urgent basis. 
(6) The trustee shall review the transactions carried out between the investment 
manager and its associates and where the investment manager has advised that 
there may be a conflict of interest, shall obtain confirmation from a practising 
chartered accountant 106[or valuer, as applicable,] that such transaction is on 
arm's length basis. 
(7) The trustee shall periodically review the status of unit holders' complai nts and 
their redressal undertaken by the investment manager. 
(8) The trustee shall make distributions and ensure that investment manager makes 
timely declaration of distributions to the unit holders in accordance with sub -
regulations (6),(7) and (8) of regulation 18. 
(9) The trustee may require the investment manager to set up such systems and 
procedures and submit such reports to the trustees, as may be necessary for 
effective monitoring of the functioning of the InvIT. 
(10) The trustee shall ensure that subscription amount is kept in a separate bank 
account in name of the InvIT and is only utilized for adjustment against 
allotment of units or refund of money to the applicants till the time such units 
are listed. 
(11) The trustee shall ensure that the remuneration of the va luer is not be linked to 
or based on the value of the assets being valued. 
                                                           
106 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016.

[Page 31]
31 
 
(12) The trustee shall ensure that the investment manager convenes meetings of the 
unit holders in accordance with these regulations and oversee the voting by unit 
holders. 
(13) The trustee shall ensure that the investment manager convenes meetings of unit 
holders not less than once every year and the period between such meetings 
shall not exceed fifteen months. 
(14) The trustee may take up with the Board or with the designated stock exchange, 
as may be applicable, any matter which has been approved in any meeting of 
unit holders, if the matter requires such action. 
(15) In case of any change in investment manager due to removal or otherwise,– 
a. prior to such change, the trustee shall obtain approval from unit holders in 
accordance with regulation 22 and from the Board;  
b. the trustee shall appoint the new investment manager within three months 
from the date of termination of the earlier investment management 
agreement; 
c. the previous investment manager shall continue to act as such at the 
discretion of trustee till such time as new investment manager is appointed; 
d. the trustee shall ensure that the new investment manager shall stand 
substituted as a pa rty in all the documents to which the earlier investment 
manager was a party; 
e. the trustee shall ensure that the earlier investment manager continues to be 
liable for all its acts of omissions and commissions notwithstanding such 
termination. 
(16) In case of any change in the project manager due to removal or otherwise,–

[Page 32]
32 
 
a. the trustee shall appoint the new project manager within three months from 
the date of termination of the earlier 107[project implementation agreement/] 
project management agreement; 
b. the trustee may, either suo motu or based on the advice of the concessioning 
authority appoint an administrator in connection with a infrastructure 
project(s) for such term and on such conditions as it deems fit; 
c. the previous project manager shall continue  to act as such at the discretion 
of trustee till such time as new project manager is appointed; 
d. all costs and expenses in this regard will be borne by the new project 
manager; 
e. the trustee shall ensure that the new project manager shall stand substituted 
as a party in all the documents to which the earlier project manager was a 
party; 
f. the trustee shall ensure that the earlier project manager continues to be liable 
for all its acts of omissions and commissions for the period during which it 
served as the project manager, notwithstanding such termination. 
(17) The trustee shall obtain prior approval from the unit holders in accordance with 
regulation 22 and from the Board in case of change in control of the investment 
manager.  
(18) In case of change in control of the project manager in a PPP project, the trustee 
shall ensure that written consent of the concessioning authority is obtained in 
terms of the concession agreement prior to such change, where applicable. 
(19) The trustee108 [of the InvIT] shall not invest in units of the InvIT in which it is 
designated as the trustee. 
                                                           
107 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
108Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of I ndia (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as t he trustee or its associates shall not invest in 
units of the InvIT in which it is designated as the trustee.

[Page 33]
33 
 
(20) The trustee shall ensure that the activity of the InvIT is being operated in 
accordance with the provisions of the trust deed, these regulations and the offer 
document or placement memorandum and if any d iscrepancy is noticed, shall 
inform the same to the Board immediately in writing. 
(21) The trustee shall provide to the Board and to the designated stock exchanges, 
where applicable, such information as may be sought by the Board or by the 
designated stock exchanges pertaining to the activity of the InvIT. 
(22) The trustee shall immediately inform the Board in case any act which is 
detrimental to the interest of the unit holders is noted. 
109[(23)           The trustee shall, ─ 
(a) comply with the core principles defining its roles and responsibilities 
which shall encompass transparency, accountability, due diligence and 
compliance with these regulations; and 
(b) act impartially in their fiduciary capacity, prioritize protection of the 
interests of unitholders, ensure effective management oversight over the 
investment manager and the InvIT and maintain high standards of 
governance of the investment manager and the InvIT. 
Explanation: ─ For the purposes of this sub-regulation, ─ 
(a) An illustrative list of roles and responsibilities to guide the trustee is 
specified in Schedule X; and 
(b) The trustee shall adopt additional measures or responsibilities crucial 
for meeting the overarching principles of their role and responsibilities: 
Provided that this sub -regulation shall come into force on the one -hundred 
eightieth day from the date of the publication of Securities and Exchange 
                                                           
109 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025.

[Page 34]
34 
 
Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 in the Official Gazette. 
 (24)           For the purpose of ensuring compliance wit h sub-regulation (23), the trustee 
may engage external consultants during the period of eighteen months from 
the date of the publication of Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 in the 
Official Gazette.] 
Rights and responsibilities of investment manager 
10. (1) The investment manager shall make the investment decisions with respect to 
the underlying assets or projects of the InvIT including any further investment 
or divestment of the assets. 
(2) The investment manager shall oversee activities of the project manager with 
respect to 110[compliance with these regulations] and the  111[project 
implementation agreement/]  project management agreement and shall obtain 
compliance certificate from the project manager, in the form as may be 
specified, on a quarterly basis. 
(3) The investment manager shall ensure that the infrastructure assets of the InvIT 
or 112[holdco or] SPV have proper legal titles, if  applicable, and that all the 
material contracts entered into on behalf of InvIT or SPV are legal, valid, 
binding and enforceable by and on behalf of the InvIT or SPV. 
(4) The investment manager shall ensure that the investments made by the InvIT 
are in accordance with the investment conditions specified in regulation 18 and 
in accordance with the investment strategy of the InvIT. 
                                                           
110 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the investment manager shall oversee activities 
of the project manager with respect to ‘revenue streams from the projects’ and the project management agreement and 
shall obtain compliance certificate from the project manager, in the form as may be specified, on a quarterly basis.  
111 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
112 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 35]
35 
 
(5) The investment manager, in consultation with trustee, shall appoint the 
valuer(s), auditor, registrar and transfer agent, merchant banker, custodian and 
any other intermediary or service provider or agent as may be applicable with 
respect to activities pertaining to the InvIT in a timely manner and in accordance 
with these regulations. 
(6) 113[Subject to the provisions  of this chapter, the investment manager of the 
InvIT shall appoint an individual or a firm as the auditor, who shall hold office 
from the date of conclusion of the annual meeting in which the auditor has been 
appointed till the date of conclusion of the s ixth annual meeting of the 
unitholders in accordance with the procedure for selection of auditors, as may 
be specified by the Board.]  
114[(6A)  The investment manager of the InvIT shall not appoint or re-appoint— 
(a) an individual as the auditor for more than one term of five 
consecutive years; and 
(b) an audit firm as the auditor for more than two terms of five 
consecutive years: 
Provided that— 
(i) the individual auditor who has completed the term under clause (a) 
shall not be eligible for re -appointment as the audito r in the same 
InvIT for a period of five years from the date of completion of the 
term; 
                                                           
113 Substituted by the Securities and Ex change Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 14.02.2023. Prior to substitution it read as follows:  
“(6) The investment manager shall appoint an auditor for a period of not more than five consecutive years:  
Provided that the auditor, not being an individual, may be reappointed for a period of another five consecutive years, 
subject to approval of unit-holders in the annual meeting in accordance with regulation 22.” 
114 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Bo ard of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 14.02.2023.

[Page 36]
36 
 
(ii) the audit firm that has completed its term under clause (b), shall not 
be eligible for reappointment as the auditor in the same InvIT for a 
period of five years from the date of completion of its term.] 
(7) The investment manager shall arrange for adequate insurance coverage for the 
115[InvIT assets]: 
Provided that this shall not apply in case the 116[InvIT] assets are required to be 
insured by any other person under any agreement including a concession 
agreement or under any Act or  regulations or circulars or guidelines of any 
concessioning authority or government or local body: 
Provided further that in 117[case any of the InvIT assets are held] by 118[holdco 
or]SPV, the investment manager shall ensure that assets held by the 119[holdco 
or] SPV are adequately insured. 
(8) The investment manager shall ensure that it has adequate infrastructure and 
sufficient key personnel with adequate experience and qualification to 
undertake management of the InvIT at all times. 
(9) The investment manager  120[and the merchant banker(s)]  shall be responsible 
for all activities pertaining to issue of units and listing of units of the InvIT 
including,– 
a. filing of placement memorandum with the Board; 
                                                           
115 Substituted for the words “assets of the InvIT” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
116 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure In vestment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
117 Substituted ibid for the words “case of assets held”.  
118Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
119 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
120 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 37]
37 
 
b. filing the 121[of the]  offer document with the Board and the exchanges 
within the prescribed time period; 
c. dealing with all matters up to allotment of units to the unit holders; 
d. obtaining in-principle approval 122[and final listing and trading approvals]  
from the designated stock exchanges; 
e. dealing with all matters relating to issue and listing of the units of the InvIT 
as specified under Chapter IV and any guidelines as may be issued by the 
Board in this regard. 
(10) The investment manager  123[and the merchant bankers (s)], shall ensure that 
disclosures made in the offer document or placement memorandum  contains 
material, true, correct and adequate disclosures and are in accordance with these 
regulations and guidelines or circulars issued hereunder. 
(11) The investment manager shall declare distributions to the unit holders in 
accordance with sub-regulation (6) and (7) of regulation 18. 
(12) The investment manager shall review the transactions carried out between the 
project manager and its associates and where the project ma nager has advised 
that there may be a conflict of interest, shall obta in confirmation from the 
124[practicing chartered accountant or the valuer, as applicable,] that such 
transaction is on arm's length basis. 
(13) The investment manager shall ensure adequate and  timely redressal of all unit 
holders' grievances pertaining to activities of the InvIT. 
                                                           
121 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as filing ‘the draft and final’ offer document with 
the Board and the exchanges within the prescribed time period; 
122 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
123 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
124 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the invest ment manager shall review the 
transactions carried out between the project manager and its associates and where the project manager has advised 
that there may be a conflict of interest, shall obtain confirmation from the ‘auditor’ that such transaction is on arm's 
length basis.

[Page 38]
38 
 
(14) The investment manager shall ensure that the disclosures or reporting to the unit 
holders, Board, trustees and designated stock exchanges, are in accordance with 
these regulations and guidelines or circulars issued hereunder. 
(15) The investment manager shall provide to the Board and to the designated stock 
exchanges, where applicable, any such information as may be sought by the 
Board or the designated stock exchanges perta ining to the activities of the 
InvIT. 
(16) The investment manager or its associates shall not obtain any commission or 
rebate or any other remuneration, by whatever name called, arising out of 
transactions pertaining to the InvIT other than as specified in the offer document 
or placement memorandum or any other document as may be specified by the 
Board for the purpose of issue of units. 
(17) The investment manager shall ensure that the valuation of the InvIT assets is 
done by the valuer(s) in accordance with regulation 21. 
(18) The investment manager shall submit to the trustee,- 
a. quarterly reports on the activities of the InvIT including receipts for all 
funds received by it and for all payments made, position on compliance 
with these regulations, specifically compliance with regulations 18, 19 and 
20, performance report, status of  development of under -construction 
projects, within 125[such time as may be specified by the Board for 
submission of quarterly financial results]; 
b. valuation reports 126[***] within fifteen days of the receipt of the valuation 
report from the valuer127[:] 
                                                           
125 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. Prior to substitution, the words were “thirty days of end of such quarter”. 
126 The w ords “ as required under these regulations ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
127 Substituted for “;” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.

[Page 39]
39 
 
128[Provided that the valuation reports specified under sub -regulation (4), 
sub-regulation (5), and sub -regulation (5A) of regulation 21 of these 
regulations shall be submitted to the trustee simultaneously at the time of 
submission of such reports to the stock exchange(s) under regulation 21.] 
c. decision to acquire or sell or develop or bid for any asset or project  or 
expand existing completed assets or projects along with rationale for the 
same; 
d. details of any action which requires approval from the unit holder s as 
maybe required under the regulations; 
e. details of any other material fact including change in its directors, change 
in its shareholding, any legal proceedings that may have a significant 
bearing on the activity of the InvIT, within seven working days o f such 
action. 
(19) In case the investment manager fails to timely submit to the trustee information 
or reports as specified under sub-regulation (18) above or sub-regulation (9) of 
regulation 9, the trustee shall intimate the same to the Board and the Board may 
take action, as it deems fit. 
(20) The investment manager shall coordinate with trustee, as may be necessary, 
with respect to operations of the InvIT. 
(21) The investment manager shall ensure that computation and declaration of NAV 
of the InvIT based on the valuat ion done by the valuer  129[, shall be disclosed 
to the stock exchange(s),] not later than fifteen days from the date of valuation. 
(22) The investment manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the InvIT by 
the auditor is done not less 130[once in a year] and such report is submitted to 
                                                           
128 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. 
129 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
130 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the investment manager shall ensure that the 
audit of accounts of the InvIT by the auditor is done not less than twice annually and such report is submitted to the

[Page 40]
40 
 
the 131[***] stock exchange132[s] within 133[sixty] days of end of financial year 
ending March 31st 134[***]. 
(23) The investment manager may appoint a custodian in order to provide such 
custodial services as may be authorised by the trustees. 
(24) The investment manager shall place before its board of directors in case of 
company or the governing board in case of an LLP a report on activity and 
performance of the InvIT at least once every quarter within 135[such time as may 
be specified by the Board for submission of quarterly financial results]. 
(25) The investment manager shall designate an employee or director as the 
compliance officer for monitoring of compliance with these regulations and 
guidelines or circulars issued hereunder and intimating the Board in case of any 
non-compliance. 
(26) The investment manager shall convene meetings of the unit holders in 
accordance with regulation 22 and maintain records pertaining to the meetings 
in accordance with regulation 26. 
(27) The investment manager shall ensure that all activities of the intermediaries or 
agents or service providers appointed by the investment manager are in 
accordance with these regulations and guidelines or circulars issued hereunder. 
                                                           
designated stock exchange within forty five days of end  of financial year ending March 31st and half -year ending 
September 30th. 
131 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as the inves tment manager shall ensure that the audit of 
accounts of the InvIT by the auditor is done not less than twice annually and such report is submitted to the designated 
stock exchange within forty five days of end of financial year ending March 31st and half -year ending September 
30th. 
132 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
133 Substituted for the words “forty five” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infr astructure Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
134 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read as th e investment manager shall ensure that the audit of 
accounts of the InvIT by the auditor is done not less than twice annually and such report is submitted to the designated 
stock exchange within forty five days of end of financial year ending March 31st an d half-year ending September 
30th. 
135 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. Prior to substitution, the words were “thirty days of end of every quarter”.

[Page 41]
41 
 
136[(28)  The investment manager may at its discretion, offer unit based employee benefit 
scheme for its employees based on the units of the InvIT subject to compliance 
with the provisions of Chapter IVB of these regulations] 
137[(29) The investment manager shall ensure compliance with the Investor Charter as 
may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
Responsibilities of project manager 
11. (1) The project manager shall undertake operations and management of the InvIT 
assets including making arrangements for the appropriate maintenance, as may 
be applicable, either directly or through the appointment and supervision of 
appropriate agents and as required under any project agreement including a 
concession agreement in the case of a PPP project. 
(2) If the InvIT invests in under construction projects, the project manager shall,– 
(a) undertake the operations and management of the projects, either directly 
or through appropriate agents; 
(b) oversee the progress of development, approval status and other aspects 
of the project upto its completion, in case of appointment o f agents for 
the purpose of execution. 
(3) The project manager shall discharge all obligations in respect of achieving 
timely completion of the 138[project implementation agreement/] infrastructure 
project, wherever applicable, implementation, operation, maintenance and 
management of such infrastructure project in terms of the project management 
agreement. 
 
Rights and responsibilities of sponsor(s) 139[and sponsor group(s)] 
                                                           
136 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024. 
137 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Charter) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 
10-02-2025. 
138 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
139 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023.

[Page 42]
42 
 
12. (1) The sponsor(s) 140[and sponsor group(s)]  shall set up the InvIT and appoint the 
trustees of the InvIT. 
(2) The sponsor(s) 141[and sponsor group(s)] shall transfer or undertake to transfer 
to the InvIT, its entire shareholding or interest  142[and rights] in the 143[holdco 
and/ or] SPV or ownership of the infrastructure projects, subject to a binding 
agreement and adequate disclosures in the offer document or placement 
memorandum, prior to allotment of units of the InvIT: 
 
Provided that this shall not apply to the extent of any mandatory holding of 
shares or interest 144[and rights] in the 145[holdco and/ or] SPV by the sponsor(s) 
146[and sponsor group(s)] as per any Act or regulations or circulars or guidelines 
of government or any regulatory authority or concession agreement.  
 
(3) 147[The sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) shall, at all times, collectively hold not 
less than fifteen percent of the total outstanding units of the InvIT, for three 
years from the date of listing of units in the initial offer, subject to the following: 
                                                           
140 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment ) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. 
141 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. 
142 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastruct ure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
143 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. 
144 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Boar d of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
145 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
146 Inserted by the Securi ties and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. 
147 Sub-regulation (3), clauses (i)-(iii) thereunder and the first proviso to clause (iii) substituted by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 
18.08.2023. Before the substitution, the provisions read as under: 
“(3) With respect to holding of units in the InvIT, the sponsor(s) together shall hold not less  than fifteen per 
cent. of the total units of the InvIT after initial offer of units, on a post-issue basis for a period of not less than 
3 years from the date of the listing of such units, subject to the following:  
 (i) sponsor(s) would be responsible for all acts, omissions and representations/covenants of the InvIT related 
to formation of InvIT, sale/ transfer of assets/holdco/SPV to the InvIT.  
 (ii) the InvIT/the trustee of the InvIT shall also have recourse against the Sponsor for any breach in this 
regard.

[Page 43]
43 
 
a) sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) would be responsible for all acts, omissions, 
representations and covenants of the InvIT related to the formation of InvIT 
or sale or transfer of assets/holdco/SPV to the InvIT; 
b) the InvIT or the trustee of the InvIT shall also have recourse against the 
sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) for any breach in this regard; 
c) project manager of the InvIT shall be the sponsor or an associate of the 
sponsor and shall continue to act in such capacity for a period of minimum 
three years from the date of listing of InvIT units unless suitable replacement 
is appointed by the unitholders through the Trustee: 
 
Provided that the condition as specified in clause (c) of this sub-regulation shall 
not be applicable where the sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) together hold not 
less than twenty -five percent of the tota l outstanding units of the InvIT after 
initial offer of units, at all times, during a period of first 3 years from the date 
of the listing of units issued in initial offer: 
 
Provided further that any holding by sponsor and sponsor group exceeding the 
fifteen percent or twenty -five percent, as the case may be, shall be held for a 
period of not less than one year from the date of listing of units issued in initial 
offer:] 
 
Provided 148[further] that in case of PPP projects  149[where the InvIT is 
investing in  infrastructure assets through SPV(s)] , in case such acquiring or 
holding is disallowed by government or under any provisions of the concession 
agreement or any other such agreement,– 
                                                           
(iii) project Manager of the InvIT shall be the sponsor or an associate of the sponsor and shall continue to act 
in such capacity for a period of minimum three years from the date of listing of InvIT units unless suitable 
replacement is appointed by the unit-holders through the Trustee: 
Provided that the condition as specified at sub clause (iii) above shall not be applicable where the sponsor(s) 
together hold not less than twenty five per cent. of the total units of the InvIT after initial offer of units, on a 
post-issue basis for a period of not less than 3 years from the date of the listing of such units.”  
148 Inserted Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
149 Inserted Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 44]
44 
 
(i) the sponsor may continue to maintain such holding at the SPV level; 
(ii) the consolidated value of all such holdings at the SPV level and the 
value of the units of InvIT held by the sponsor shall not be less than the 
value of 150[fifteen] per cent. of the total units of the InvIT after initial 
issue of units on a post-issue basis; 
(iii) such units of the InvIT and shares or interest in the SPV shall be held 
for a period of not less than three years from the date of the listing of 
units of the InvIT; 
(iv) in case such holding of sponsor in the SPV results in the InvIT not 
having controlling interest and not having more than fifty 151[one] per 
cent. shareholding or interest in the SPV, the sponsor shall enter into a 
binding agreement with the InvIT to ensure that decisions taken by the 
sponsor including voting with respect to the SPV are in compliance 
with these regulations and not against the interest of the InvITs or the 
unit holders and shall be subject to further guidelines as may be 
specified by the Board. 
152[(3A) The sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) shall collectively hold not less than – 
(i) five percent of the total outstanding units of the InvIT, from the beginning of fourth 
year and till the end of fifth year from the date of listing of the units issued in the 
initial offer; 
(ii) three percent of the total outstanding units of the InvIT, from the beginning of sixth 
year and till the end of tenth year from the date of listing of the units issued in the 
initial offer; 
(iii)two percent of the total outstanding units of the InvIT, from the beginning of 
eleventh year and till the end of twentieth year from the date of listing of the units 
issued in the initial offer; 
                                                           
150 Substituted “twenty five”  by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
151 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
152 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second A mendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023.

[Page 45]
45 
 
(iv) one percent of the total outstanding units of the InvIT, after the completion of the 
twentieth year from the date of listing of units issued in the initial offer: 
Provided that the maximum value of units to be held by sponsor(s) and sponsor 
group(s) for compliance with clauses (i) to (iv) shall not exceed five hundred crore 
rupees or such other value as may be decided by the Board from time to time and 
such valuation shall be based o n the latest available net asset value of the of the 
InvIT: 
 
Provided further that an assessment of compliance of requirements under clauses 
(i) to (iv) of this sub-regulation shall be done at the time of each fresh issuance of 
units and at the beginning o f change in threshold of the percentage for minimum 
unitholding requirement as specified in this sub-regulation: 
 
Provided further that for InvITs that have already issued units pursuant to an initial 
offer as on the date of coming into effect of the Secur ities and Exchange Board of 
India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, 
the provisions contained in subregulation (3) and (3A) of this regulation shall be 
applicable only for the additional units issued by the InvIT after  such date and the 
units that are locked in at the time of initial offer shall continue to be locked in till 
the completion of three years from the date of listing of units in such initial offer.] 
 
153[***] 
154[(4) For the purpose of calculating the minimum unitholding requirements as 
mentioned in sub -regulations (3) and (3A) above, subordinate units shall not be 
considered in computing total outstanding units of the InvIT. 
 
                                                           
153 Sub-regulation (4) omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023 
“(4). Any holding by sponsor in InvIT, exceeding [fifteen] per cent. on a post issue basis, shall be held for a 
period of not less than one year from the date of listing of such units.” 
154 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 27.05.2024.

[Page 46]
46 
 
(4A) Subordinate units shall not be eligible for meeting the minimum unitholding 
requirement as mentioned in sub-regulations (3) and (3A) above.] 
 
155[(5) The units required to be held in terms of sub -regulation (3) and (3A) shall be 
locked in and shall not be encumbered: 
Notwithstanding the above, any encumbrance created on units held to comply with the 
minimum unit holding requirement applicable before the date of coming into effect of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, may continue if the encumbrance exist on such date.] 
156[Provided that locked-in units held by a sponsor or its sponsor group entities may be 
transferred only amongst such sponsor or its sponsor group entities subject to the 
condition that lock-in on such units shall continue for the remaining peri od with the 
transferee and such transferee shall not be eligible to transfer such units till the lock -
in period has expired. 
Explanation: ─ In case of an InvIT with multiple sponsors, the locked in units held by 
a sponsor or its sponsor group entities can be transferred only amongst such sponsor 
or its own sponsor group entities and shall not be transferred to any other sponsor or 
their sponsor group entities. 
Provided further that in case of change in sponsor, locked-in units held by the outgoing 
sponsor or its sponsor group entities may be transferred to the incoming sponsor or its 
sponsor group entities subject to the condition that the incoming sponsor or its group 
entities shall meet the minimum unitholding requirements after the transfer: 
Provided also that in case of conversion to self-sponsored investment manager, locked-
in units held by the outgoing sponsor or its sponsor group entities may be transferred 
to the self-sponsored investment manager or its shareholders or group entities of self-
sponsored investment manager subject to the condition that the self -sponsored 
investment manager or its shareholders or group entities of self-sponsored investment 
manager shall meet the minimum unitholding requirements after the transfer.] 
                                                           
155 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. 
156 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025.

[Page 47]
47 
 
 
Rights and responsibilities of the valuer and auditor  
13. (1) The valuers shall comply with the following conditions at all times,– 
(a) the valuer shall ensure that the valuation of the InvIT assets is impartial, 
true and fair and is in accordance with regulation 21; 
(b) the valuer shall ensure adequate and robust internal controls to ensure 
the integrity of its valuation reports; 
(c) the valuer shall ensure that it has sufficient key personnel with adequate 
experience and qualification to perform valuations;  
(d) the valuer shall ensure that it has sufficient financial resources to enable 
it to conduct its business effectively and meet its liabilities; 
(e) the valuer and any of its employees involved in valuing of the assets of 
the InvIT, shall not,– 
i. invest in units of the InvIT or in the assets being valued; and  
ii. sell the assets or units of InvITs held prior to being appointed as 
the valuer, 
till the time such person is designated as valuer of such InvIT and not 
less than six months after ceasing to be valuer of the InvIT; 
(f) the valuer shall conduct valuation of the InvIT assets with transparency 
and fairness and shall render, at all times, high standards of service, 
exercise due diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent 
professional judgment; 
(g) the valuer shall act with independence, objectivity and impartiality in 
performing the valuation; 
(h) the valuer shall discharge its duties towards the InvIT in an efficient and 
competent manner, utilizing its knowledge, skills and experience in best 
possible way to complete given assignment; 
(i) the valuer shall not accept remuneration, in any form, for performing a 
valuation of the InvIT assets from any person other than the InvIT or its 
authorized representative;

[Page 48]
48 
 
(j) the valuer shall befor e accepting any assignment, 157[ from any related 
party of the InvIT, ] disclose to the InvIT any direct or indirect 
consideration which the valuer may have in respect of such assignment;  
(k) the valuer shall disclose to the InvIT any pending business transactions, 
contracts under negotiation and other arrangements with the investment 
manager or any other party whom the InvIT is contracting with and any 
other factors that may interfere with the valuer’s ability to give an 
independent and professional valuation of the assets; 
(l) the valuer shall not make false, misleading or exaggerated claims in 
order to secure assignments; 
(m) the valuer shall not provide misleading valuation, either by providing 
incorrect information or by withholding relevant information; 
(n) the valuer shall not accept an assignment which interferes with its ability 
to do fair valuation; 
(o) the valuer shall, prior to performing a valuation, acquaint itself with all 
laws or regulations relevant to such valuation. 
(2) The auditor shall comply with the following conditions at all times,– 
(a) the auditor shall conduct audit of the accounts of the InvIT and draft the 
audit report based on the accounts examined by him and after taking 
into account the relevant accounting and auditing s tandards, as may be 
specified by the Board;  
(b) the auditor shall, to the best of his information and knowledge, ensure 
that the accounts and financial statements give a true and fair view of 
the state of the affairs of the InvIT, including profit or loss and cash flow 
for the period and such other matters as may be specified; 
(c) the auditor shall have a right of access at all times to the books of 
accounts and vouchers pertaining to activities of the InvIT; 
                                                           
157 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (A mendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 49]
49 
 
(d) the auditor shall have a right to require such information and explanation 
pertaining to activities of the InvIT as he may consider necessary for the 
performance of his duties as auditor from the employees of InvIT or 
158[holdco or] parties to the InvIT or 159[holdco or] SPV or any other 
person in possession of such information. 
160[(e)  The auditor shall undertake a limited review of the audit of all the 
entities or companies whose accounts are to be consolidated with the 
accounts of the InvIT as per the applicable Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS) and any addendum thereto as defined in Rule 2 (1) (a) of the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, in such manner 
as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
CHAPTER IV 
OFFER OF UNITS OF InvIT AND LISTING OF UNITS 
Issue of units and allotment 
14. (1) No initial offer of units by an InvIT shall be made unless,– 
(a) The InvIT is registered with the Board under these regulations; 
(b) the value of 161[InvIT assets] is not less than 162[rupees] five hundred 
crore. 
                                                           
158 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
159 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
160 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 14.02.2023. 
161 Substituted for the words “the assets held by the I nvIT” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
162 Substituted ”ruppes” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 50]
50 
 
Explanation.- Such value shall mean the value of the specific portion of 
the holding of InvIT in the underlying assets or 163[holdco or] SPVs; 
(c) the offer size is not less than rupees two hundred fifty crore: 
Provided that the requirement of ownership of assets under clause (b) and offer 
size under clause (c) may be complied 164[ at any point of time before allotment 
of units in accordance with offer document/placement memorandum ] subject, 
to a binding agreement with the relevant party(ies) that  165[such] the 
requirements shall be fulfilled prior to 166[such] allotment 167[and] a declaration 
to the Board and 168[to] the designated stock exchanges to that effect, where 
applicable and adequate disclosures in this regard in the 169[***] offer document 
or placement memorandum. 
170[(1A) The minimum offer and allotment to public through an offer document/ 
placement memorandum shall be,- 
(a) atleast twenty five per cent. of the total outstanding units of the InvIT, if the post 
issue capital of the InvIT calculated at offer price is less than rupees one thousand 
six hundred crore: 
Provided that this requirement shall be complied along with the requirement under 
Regulation 14(1)(c) of the InvIT Regulations. 
                                                           
163 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
164 Substituted “with after initial offer or first offer of units under private placement”  by Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016  
165 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
166 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
167 Substituted “of units,” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
168 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
169 Omitted “initial” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Inves tment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
170 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 51]
51 
 
(b) of the value of atleast Rs 400 crore, if the post issue capital of the InvIT 
calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees one thousand six hundred 
crore and less than rupees four thousand crore; 
(c) atleast ten per cent. of the total outstanding units of the InvIT, if the post issue 
capital of the InvIT calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees four 
thousand crore: 
171[***] 
Provided 172[***] that any listed InvIT which has public holding below twenty five 
per cent on account of sub -clauses (b) and (c) above, such InvIT shall increase its 
public holding to at least twenty five per cent, within a period of three years from 
the date of listing pursuant to initial offer.] 
(2) If the InvIT 173[ raises funds by way of private placement]– 
(a) 174[it shall do it] through a placement memorandum; 
(b) from 175[institutional investors] and body corporate only, whether 
Indian or foreign: 
Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be 
subject to guidelines as may be specified by Reserve Bank of India and 
the government from time to time; 
                                                           
171 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (I nfrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. Prior to omission, the words were “Provided that any units offered to sponsor or 
the investment manager or the project manager or their related parties or their associates shall not be counted towards 
units offered to the public.” 
172 The word “further” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. 
173 Substituted “invests or proposes to invest in under-construction projects, value of which is more than ten per cent. 
of the value of the InvIT assets, it shall raise funds, ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
174 Substituted “ by way of private placement only ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
175 Substituted for the words “qualified institutional buyers” by  the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 52]
52 
 
(c) with minimum investment from any investor of rupees 176[ twenty five 
lakhs]; 
177[***] 
(d) from not less than five and not more than one thousand investors. 
178[(da)  maximum subscription from any investor other than sponsor(s), its 
related parties and its associates, in initial offer shall not be more than 
25 percent of the total unit capital;] 
179[(e) shall file a placement memorandum with the Board alongwith the fee as 
specified in Schedule II, atleast 5 days prior to opening of the issue: 
Provided that such opening of the issue shall not be at a date later than 3 months 
from the receipt of in-principle approval for listing, from exchange(s).] 
180[(f) it shall file the final placement memorandum with the Board within a 
period of ten working days from the date of listing of the units issued therein.] 
(3) 181[***] 
                                                           
176 Substituted for the words “ one crore” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. 
177 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. Prior to omission, it read as “ Notwithstanding the above, if such an privately 
placed InvIT invests or proposes to invest not less than eighty per cent of  the value of the InvIT assets, in completed 
and revenue generating assets, the minimum investment from an investor shall be rupees twenty five crore; ”, as 
inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) ( Amendment) Regulations, 
2016 w.e.f. 30.11.2026 and the words “, in completed and revenue generating assets,” inserted after the words “of the 
value of the InvIT assets and before the words “the minimum investment” vide Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017 w.e.f. 15.12.2017. 
178 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f 16.06.2020. 
179 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
180 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
181 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read “The InvIT as specified in sub-regulation (2) shall file the draft 
placement m emorandum for making private placement of units with the Board along with the application for 
registration and the Board may communicate its comments, to such applicant which shall be incorporated by the 
applicant in placement memorandum prior to grant of registration.”

[Page 53]
53 
 
(4) 182[ If the InvIT raises funds by public issue] 183[***] 184[***]– 
(a) 185[ it shall be by way of initial public offer]; 
(b) any subsequent issue of units after initial  186[public] offer may be by 
way of follow -on offer, preferential allotment, qualified institutional 
placement, rights issue , bonus issue, offer for sale  or any other 
mechanism and in the manner as may be specified by the Board; 
(c) minimum subscription  187[amount] from any investor in initial and 
follow-on offer shall 188[fall within the range of ten thousand rupees to 
fifteen thousand rupees]; 
189[(ca) maximum sub scription from any investor other than sponsor(s), its 
related parties and its associates, in initial offer shall not be more than 
25 percent of the total unit capital;] 
(d) 190[***] 
                                                           
182 Substituted “with respect to”  by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
183 The word “InvITs” is omitted by the SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amend ment) Regulations, 2017, 
w.e.f. 15.12.2017.  
184 Omitted “that hold not less than eighty per cent. of its assets in completed and revenue generating infrastructure 
projects,” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amend ment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
185 Substituted “initial issue of units shall be by way of initial offer only ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016  
186 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
187 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f 30.07.2021. 
188 Substituted for “be one lakh rupees” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f 30.07.2021. Prior to the substitution, “be one lakh rupees” was substituted for 
“be ten lakh rupees” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019.  
189 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f 16.06.2020. 
190 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016. Prior to the substitution it read “the units proposed to be offered to the public is not l ess than 
twenty five per cent. of the total of the outstanding units of the InvIT and the units being offered by way of the offer 
document: 
Provided that if prior to the initial offer, units of the InvIT are held by the public, the units proposed to be off ered to 
the public shall be calculated after reducing such existing units for satisfying the aforesaid percentage requirement;”

[Page 54]
54 
 
(e) prior to initial 191[public] offer and follow -on offer, the 192[merchant 
banker] shall file the draft offer document 193[ along with the fee as 
specified in Schedule II,] with the designated stock exchange(s) and the 
Board not less than 194[thirty] working days before filing the 195[***] 
offer document with the designated stock exchange 196[and SEBI]; 
(f) the draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public, for 
comments, if any, 197[***] by hosting it on the websites of the Board, 
designated stock exchanges  198[, InvIT]  and merchant bankers 
associated with the issue  199[, for a period of not less than twenty one 
days]; 
(g) the Board may communicate its comments to the lead merchant banker 
and, in the interest of investors, may require the lead merchant banker 
to carry out such modifications in the draft offer document as it deems 
fit;  
(h) the lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received from 
the Board on the draft offer document are suitably addressed prior to the 
filing of the 200[***] offer document with the designated stock 
exchanges; 
                                                           
191 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
192 Substituted “investment manager” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
193 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
194 Substituted “twenty one” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
195 Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of In dia (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
196 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
197 Omitted “to be submitted to the Board, within a period of at least ten days, ” by Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016  
198 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
199 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
200 Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (I nfrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 55]
55 
 
(i) in case no 201[observations] are 202[issued] by the Board in the draft offer 
document within twenty one working days from the date of receipt of 
satisfactory reply from the lead merchant bankers or manager, the InvIT 
may 203[file] the 204[***] offer document or follow -on offer document 
205[with the Board and the exchange(s)]; 
(j) the draft 206[offer document] and 207[***] offer document shall be 
accompanied by a due diligence certificate signed by the 208[***] lead 
merchant banker;  
(k) the 209[***] offer document shall be filed with the designated stock 
exchanges and the Board not less than five working days before opening 
of the offer 210[***]; 
                                                           
201 Substituted “modifications” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
202 Substituted “sugge sted” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
203 Substituted “issue” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
204 Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
205 Substituted “to the public” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Inv estment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
206 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
207 Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board  of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
208 Omitted “investment manager and” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
209 Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
210 Omitted “and such filing with the Board shall be accompanied by filing fees as specified under Schedule II ” by 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 
30.11.2016

[Page 56]
56 
 
(l) The InvIT may 211[open] the initial 212[public] offer or follow-on offer 
213[or rights issue] within a period of not more than 214[one year] from 
the date of 215[***] issuance of observations by the Board 216[***]: 
Provided that if the initial 217[public] offer or follow -on offer 218[or 
rights issue ] is not made within the prescribed time period, a fresh 
219[draft] offer document shall be filed;  
220[Provided further that the InvIT shall not be required to file draft offer 
document with the Board in case of a fast track rights issue, subject to 
the fulfillment of the conditions as specified by the Board from time to 
time.] 
(m) The InvIT may invite for subscriptions and allot units to any person, 
whether resident or foreign: 
Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be 
subject to guidelines as may be specified by Reserve Bank of India and 
the government from time to time. 
                                                           
211 Substituted “make” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
212 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
213 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations , 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
214 Substituted “six months” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
215 Omitted “last” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Inve stment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
216 Omitted “, if any and if no observations have been issued by the Board, within six months from the date of filing 
of final offer document with the designated stock exchanges ” by Securities an d Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016  
217 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
218 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
219 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
220 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f 02.03.2020

[Page 57]
57 
 
(n) the application for subscription shall be accompanied by a statement 
containing the abridged version of the offer document detailing the risk 
factors and summary of the terms of issue; 
(o) initial 221[public] offer and follow -on offer shall not be o pen for 
subscription for a period of more than thirty days; 
(p) in case of over-subscriptions, the InvIT shall allot units to the applicants 
on a proportionate basis rounded off to the nearest integer subject to 
minimum subscription amount per subscriber as specified in clause (c);  
(q) the InvIT shall allot units or refund application money,as the case may 
be, within twelve working days from the date of closing of the issue; 
(r) the InvIT shall issue units in only in dematerialized form to all the 
applicants; 
(s) the pric e of InvIT units issued by way of public issue shall be 
determined through the book building process or any other process in 
accordance with the guidelines issued by the Board and in the manner 
as may be specified by the Board; 
(t) the InvIT shall refund money,-  
(i) to all the applicants in case it fails to collect subscription of 
atleast 222[ninety] per cent. of the  223[fresh] issue size as 
specified in the 224[***] offer document; 
(ii) to applicants to the extent of the over subscription, in case the 
moneys received is in excess of the extent of over -subscription 
                                                           
221 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
222 Substituted for “seventy five”by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
223 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
224 Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 58]
58 
 
as specified in the 225[***] offer document, money shall be 
refunded to applicants to the extent of the oversubscription: 
 Provided that right  to retain such over subscription cannot 
exceed twenty five per cent. of the issue size; 
 226[Provided further, that the offer document shall contain 
adequate disclosures towards the utilisation of such 
oversubscription proceeds, if any, and such proceeds retained on 
account of oversubscription shall not be utilised towards general 
purposes.] 
(iii) to all the applicants, in case the number of subscribers to the 
initial 227[public] offer forming part of the public is less than 
twenty; 
(u) If the investment m anager fails to allot or list the units or refund the 
money within the specified time, then the investment manager shall pay 
interest to the unit holders at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum, till 
such allotment or  listing or refund and such interest  shall be not be 
recovered in the form of fees or any other form payable to the 
investment manager by the InvIT; 
(v) units may be offered for sale to public,– 
i. if such units have been held by the sellers for a period of at least 
one year prior to the filing of draft offer document with the 
Board: 
 Provided that the  holding period for the equity shares 228[, 
compulsorily convertible securities (from the date such 
                                                           
225 Omitted “final” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
226 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
227 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
228 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017

[Page 59]
59 
 
securities are fully paid -up)] or partnership interest in the 
229[holdco or] SPV against which such units have been received 
shall be considered for the purpose of calculation of one year 
period referred in this sub-regulation: 
 230[Provided further that the compulsorily convertible securities, 
whose holding period has been included for the purpose of 
calculation for offer for sale, shall be converted to equity shares 
of the holdco or SPV, prior to filing of offer document.] 
ii. subject to other guidelines as may be specified by the Board in 
this regard; 
231[(va) The amount for general purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue 
in the draft offer document filed with the Board, shall not exceed Ten per cent 
of the amount raised by the InvIT by issuance of units.] 
(5) If the InvIT fails to make any offer of its units, whether by way of public issue 
or private placement, within three years from the date of registration with the 
Board, it shall surrender its certificate of registration to the Board and cease to 
operate as an InvIT: 
Provided that the Board, if it deems fit, may extend the period by another one 
year: 
Provided further that the InvIT may later re -apply for registration, if it so 
desires. 
232[(5A)  No InvIT shall undertake any activity under Chapter VIA.] 
                                                           
229 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
230 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
231 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
232 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment ) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 01.01.2023

[Page 60]
60 
 
233[(5B)  No InvIT shall raise funds through public issue if any subordinate units have 
been issued and are outstanding.] 
(6) The Board may specify by  issue of guidelines or circulars any other 
requirements, as it deems fit, pertaining to issue and allotment of units by an 
InvIT, whether by way of public issue or private placement. 
 
 
 
Offer document or placement memorandum and advertisements 
15. (1) The offer document or placement memorandum of t he InvIT shall contain 
material, true, correct and adequate disclosures to enable the investors to make 
an informed decision.  
(2)  Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the offer document or 
placement memorandum shall,– 
(i) not be misleading or contain any untrue statements or mis-statements; 
(ii) not provide for any guaranteed returns to the investors; and 
(iii) include such other disclosures as may be specified by the Board. 
(3)  The offer document shall include all information as specified under Schedule 
III. 
(4)  234[The placement memorandum shall contain all information as specified 
under Schedule III, to the extent applicable.] 
(5)  No advertisement shall be issued pertaining to issue of units by an InvIT which 
makes a private placement of its units. 
                                                           
233 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 27.05.2024. 
234 Substituted for “The placement memorandum shall contain all material information about the InvIT, parties to the 
InvIT, fees and all other expenses proposed to be charged, tenure of the InvIT, investment strategy, risk management 
tools and parameters employed, key service providers, conflict of interest and procedures to identify and address them, 
disciplinary history of the sponsor(s), investment manager, trustee and their associates, the terms and conditions on 
which the investment manager offers investment services, its affiliations with other intermediaries, manner of winding 
up of the InvIT and such other information as may be necessary for the investor to take an informed decision on 
whether to invest in the InvIT. ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 61]
61 
 
(6)  With respect to advertisements pertaining to the offer of units by an InvIT with 
respect to public issue of its units,- 
(i) such advertisement material shall not be misleading and shall not 
contain anything extraneous to the contents of the offer document; 
(ii) if an advertisement contains positive highlights, it shall also contain risk 
factors with equal importance in all aspects including print size; 
(iii) the advertisements shall be in accordance with any circulars or 
guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this regard. 
Listing and trading of units  
16. (1) It shall be mandatory for units of all InvITs to be listed on a recognized stock 
exchange having nationwide trading terminals, whether  publicly issued or 
privately placed: 
Provided that this sub -regulation shall not apply if the initial offer does not 
satisfy the minimum subscription amount or the minimum number of 
subscribers under regulation 14. 
(2)  The listing of the units shall be in accordance with the listing agreement entered 
into between the InvIT and the designated stock exchanges. 
235[(2A) In the event of non -receipt of listing permission from the stock exchange(s) or 
withdrawal of Observation Letter issued by the Board, wherever applicable, the units shall 
not be eligible for listing and the InvIT shall be liable to refund the subscription monies, 
if any, to the respective allottees immediately alongwith interest at the rate of fifteen per 
cent. per annum from the date of allotment.] 
(3)  The units of the InvIT listed in the designated stock exchanges shall be traded, 
cleared and settled in accordance with the bye -laws of designated stock 
exchanges and such conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
(4)  The InvIT shall redeem units only by way of a buyback or at the time of 
delisting of units. 
                                                           
235 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 62]
62 
 
(5)  The units shall remain listed on the designated Stock Exchanges unless delisted 
under regulation 17. 
(6)  The minimum public holding for the units of the 236[***] InvIT after listing 
shall be 237[ in accordance with sub -regulation (1A) of regulation 14 ] failing 
which action may be taken as may be specified by the Board and by the 
designated stock exchanges including delisting of units under regulation 17. 
(7)  The minimum number of unit holders in an InvIT other than the sponsor(s) 238[, 
its related parties and its associates] ,– 
(a) in case of privately placed InvIT, shall be five, 239[***]; 
(b) forming part of public shall be twenty, 240[***], 
at all times post listing of the units, failing which action may be taken as may 
be specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchanges including 
delisting of units under regulation 17. 
(8)  With respect to listing of privately placed units,– 
(a) its units shall be mandatorily listed on the designated stock exchange(s) 
within thirty working days from the date of 241[allotment]; 
242[(b) trading lot for the pur pose of trading of units on the designated stock 
exchange shall be rupees twenty five lakhs.] 
(9) With respect to listing of publicly offered units,– 
                                                           
236 Omitted “publicly offered” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Tr usts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
237 Substituted for “ twenty five per cent. of the total number of outstanding units, at all times, ” by Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 20 16, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
238 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
239 The words “each holding not more than twenty five per cent. of the units of the InvIT” omitted by  the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f 
16.06.2020. 
240 The words “each holding not more than twenty five per cent. of the units of the InvIT” omitted by the Securities 
and Ex change Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f 
16.06.2020. 
241 Substituted for “ final closing ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
242 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 27.09.2024. Prior to the substitution the words were “trading lot for the purpose of trading 
of units on the designated stock exchange shall be rupees one crore. 
Notwithstanding the above, if an InvIT invests not less than eighty per cent of the value of the InvIT assets,  in 
completed and revenue generating assets, the trading lot for the purpose of trading of units on the designated stock 
exchange of such InvIT shall be rupees two crore;”

[Page 63]
63 
 
(a) its units shall be mandatorily listed on the designated stock exchange(s) 
within twelve working days from the date of closure of the initial 
243[public] offer: 
 Provided that this sub-regulation shall not apply if the initial 244[public] 
offer does not satisfy the minimum subscription amount or the minimum 
number of subscribers as specified in regulation 14; 
(b) trading lot for the purpose of trading of units on the designated stock 
exchange shall consist of 245[one unit]. 
(10) Any person other than the sponsor(s) hol ding units of the InvIT prior to initial 
offer shall hold the units for a period of not less than one year from the date of 
listing of the units. 
(11) The Board and designated stock exchanges may specify any other requirements 
pertaining to listing and trading of units of the InvIT by issuance of gu idelines 
or circulars. 
 
Delisting of units and winding up of the InvIT 
17. (1) The investment manager shall apply for delisting of  units of the InvIT to the 
Board and the designated stock exchanges if,- 
(a) the public holding falls below the specified limit under sub-regulation 
(6) of regulation 16; 
(b) the number of unit holders of the InvIT falls below the limit as specified 
under sub-regulation (7) 246[of regulation 16]; 
                                                           
243 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
244 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
245 Substituted for “100 units” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 30.07.2021. Prior to the substitution, “ consist of 100 units” were substituted 
for “be five lakh rupees” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019 
 
246 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 64]
64 
 
(c) if there are no projects or assets remaining under the InvIT for a period 
exceeding six months and InvIT does not propose to invest in any 
project in future: 
 Provided that, the period may be extended by further 6 months, with the 
approval of unitholders in the manner as specified in regulation 22; 
(d) the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for 
violation of the listing agreement or these regulations or the Act;  
(e) the 247[****] trustee 248[and investment manager]  requests such 
delisting and such request has been approved by unit holders in 
accordance with regulation 22; 
249[***]  
Provided that exit shall be provided to dissenting unitholders. 
(f) unit holders apply for such delisting in accordance with regulation 22; 
(g) the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting in 
the interest of the unit holders: 
Provided that if clause (a) or (b) is breached, the trustee may provide a period 
of six months to the investment manager to rectify the same, failing which shall 
apply for such delisting: 
Provided further that in case of PPP projects, such delisting shall be subject to 
relevant clauses in the concession agreement. 
(2) The Board and the designated stock Exchanges may consider such application 
for delisting for approval or rejection as may be appropriate in the interest of 
the unit holders. 
                                                           
247 The words “sponsor(s) or” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019 
248 Inserted ibid. 
249 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 01.01.2023. Prior to omission, it read as: 
“(ea) the trustee and the Investment Manager of a privately placed and liste d InvIT chooses to convert InvIT to 
a privately placed unlisted InvIT and such request has been approved by unit holders in accordance with 
regulation 22:”. *** 
*** Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) ( Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019

[Page 65]
65 
 
(3) The Board may, instead of delisting of the units, if it deems fit,  provide 
additional time to the InvIT or parties to the InvIT to comply with sub -
regulation (1). 
(4) The Board may reject the application for delisting and take any other action, as 
it deems fit, under these regulations or the Act for violation of the listing 
agreement or these regulations or the Act. 
(5) The procedure for delisting of units of InvIT including provision of exit option 
to the unit holders shall be in accordance with the listing agreement and in 
accordance with procedure as may be specified by the Board and by the 
designated stock exchanges from time to time. 
(6) After delisting of its units, the InvIT shall surrender its certificate of registration 
to the Board and shall no longer undertake activity of an InvIT: 
250[***] 
(7) The InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall continue to be liable for all their acts 
of omissions and commissions with respect to activit ies of the InvIT 
notwithstanding surrender of registration to the Board. 
 
251[CHAPTER IVA 
FRAMEWORK FOR ISSUANCE OF SUBORDINATE UNITS 
 
Applicability. 
17A. (1) The provisions contained in this Chapter shall only apply to subordinate 
units issued after the notification of this Chapter: 
                                                           
250 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 01.01.2023. Prior to omission, it read as: 
“Notwithstanding the above, in case the delisting is done in terms of clause (ea) of sub-regulation (1), the InvIT 
may retain its certificate of registration and continue to undertake the activity of a privately placed and unlisted 
InvIT as specified in Chapter VIA.”*** 
***Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019. 
251 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 27.05.2024.

[Page 66]
66 
 
Provided that the provisions pertaining to disclosure requirements 
contained in this Chapter shall also apply to any subordinate units issued 
prior to notification of this Chapter. 
(2) Subject to the provisions contained in this Chapter, the provisions of 
these regulations applicable to ordinary units shall apply mutatis 
mutandis to issuance of subordinate units. 
 
Issuance of Subordinate Units. 
17B. (1) The subordinate units shall only be issued by a privately placed InvIT 
upon acquisition of an infrastructure project. 
(2) The subordinate units shall be issued only to the sponsor, its associates 
and the sponsor group and shall be deemed to be a part of the 
consideration for acquisition of the infrastructure project from such 
sponsor, its associates and the sponsor group.  
(3) The subordinate units shall not carry any voting rights or distribution 
rights. 
(4) The subordinate units shall be issued in a dematerialized form with an 
International Securities Identification Number, distinct from that of the 
ordinary units. 
(5) The subordinate units shall be listed on a recognised stock exchange 
after their reclassification into ordinary units in accordance with the 
provisions contained in these regulations.  
(6) The subordinate units may be issued by way of an initial offer or any 
offer subsequent to the initial offer, either along with the issue of 
ordinary units or without the issue of ordinary units.  
(7) The issue of subordinate units made after the initial offer by the InvIT 
shall require the approval of the unitholders where votes cast in favour 
of the resolution shall not be less than one and a half times the votes cast 
against the resolution:

[Page 67]
67 
 
Provided that any unitholder who is party to the acquisition of the 
infrastructure project including the sponsor, its associates and sponsor 
group, shall not be entitled to vote. 
(8) The price of subordinate units shall be determined according to the 
pricing guidelines applicable for issuance of ordinary units. 
(9) Prior to issuance of subordinate units,  the investment manage r shall 
obtain in -principle approval from the recognised stock exchange for 
listing of such subordinate units after their reclassification into ordinary 
units.  
(10) The enabling provisions authorising the issuance of subordinate units 
shall be specified in the Trust Deed.  
(11) The investment manager shall disclose the terms and conditions 
governing subordinate units in the Term Sheet. 
(12) The investment manager shall disclose the impact of potential 
reclassification of subordinate units into ordinary units in th e Term 
Sheet in such manner as may be specified by the Board. 
(13) The investment manager shall disclose the Term Sheet in the placement 
memorandum, the explanatory statement to the notice for unitholders 
meeting as well as any document which may be disclosed t o investors 
including prospective investors. 
(14) The InvIT shall also disclose the Term Sheet, the placement 
memorandum and the notice for unitholders meeting including the 
explanatory statement on its website and shall file the same with the 
recognised stock exchange. 
(15) The amount of subordinate units issued at the time of acquisition of an 
infrastructure project by the InvIT shall not exceed ten percent of the 
acquisition price of the infrastructure project.  
(16) The total number of outstanding subordinate units issued by an InvIT at 
any point of time shall not exceed ten percent of the total number of 
outstanding ordinary units issued by such InvIT:

[Page 68]
68 
 
Provided that an InvIT which has subordinate units outstanding 
exceeding the above limit, as on the date of notification of this chapter, 
such InvIT may issue additional subordinate units subject to compliance 
with the above limit: 
Provided further that for the purpose of compliance with the above limit, 
all outstanding subordinate units shall be considered including the  
subordinate units issued prior to the date of the notification of this 
chapter. 
(17) The terms and conditions of the subordinate units shall not be varied 
after their issuance, except in accordance with the provisions of this 
chapter. 
 
Transfer of subordinate units. 
17C. (1) The subordinate units shall be locked in till its reclassification into 
ordinary units  
(2) The subordinate units shall not be transferable to any person except the 
sponsor, its associates and the sponsor group entities.  
(3) The subordinate units shall  not be encumbered in favor of any person 
except the sponsor, its associates and the sponsor group entities. 
(4) The depository shall not register the transfer or encumbrance of a 
subordinate unit in favour of any person unless such a person is a 
sponsor of the InvIT, associate of such sponsor or belongs to the sponsor 
group of the InvIT.  
(5) The investment manager shall disclose any inter -se transfer or inter -se 
encumbrance of subordinate units to the recognised stock exchange 
within one working day of such transfer or encumbrance. 
(6) In case of a change in the sponsor, the outgoing sponsor shall transfer 
the subordinate units held by it, if any, to another sponsor, its associates 
or sponsor group.

[Page 69]
69 
 
Entitlement date, entitlement event and performance benchmark. 
17D. (1) The entitlement date, the entitlement event and the performance 
benchmark for reclassification of subordinate units to ordinary units 
shall be clearly defined and specified in the Term Sheet.  
(2) The performance benchmark for reclassification of subordinate units 
shall be quantifiable, objective and based on the audited financial 
statements. 
(3) The minimum time period between the issuance of subordinate units and 
entitlement date for reclassification of the subordinate units to ordinary 
units shall be three year. 
(4) The entitlement date may be extended in the manner specified in the 
Term Sheet, subject to the following conditions: 
(a) the entitlement date shall not be extended for more than one year 
at a time and shall not be extended more than two times in total; 
(b) the extension of the entitlement date may be done only for cases 
where a possibility of such extension is clearly contemplated, duly 
approved and disclosed in the Term Sheet prior to the issuance of 
subordinate units;  
(c) the extension of entitlement date shall be allowed only in case of 
any unforeseen circumstances as mentioned in the Term Sheet 
such as impossibility on account of a force majeure event or 
illegality on account of change in law or an order of any court or 
authority;  
(d) the explanatory sta tement to the notice of unitholders meeting 
convened for seeking approval for the extension in entitlement 
date shall disclose the reasons for proposing such extension and 
the potential impact on account of such extension on the ordinary 
unitholders, inclu ding any potential dilution of their beneficial 
interest in the InvIT; and

[Page 70]
70 
 
(e) the extension of the entitlement date shall require the approval of 
the unitholders as provided for in sub-regulation (7) of regulation 
17B; 
 
Progress related to achievement of performance benchmark. 
17E. (1) The investment manager shall monitor the progress related to the 
achievement of performance benchmark and shall report such progress 
annually or with such frequency as may be specified by the Board, after 
certification by the sta tutory auditor of the InvIT and approval of the 
trustee and the audit committee of the investment manager. 
(2) The investment manager shall disclose the progress related to 
achievement of performance benchmark in the Annual Report of the 
InvIT.  
(3) The investment manager shall disclose the diluted NAV and the diluted 
distribution per unit to the stock exchange along with NAV and 
distribution per unit till the time subordinate units are outstanding. 
Explanation. – For the purpose of this sub-regulation – 
(a)  “diluted NAV” or "diluted net asset value” means the value of the 
InvIT assets reduced by the external debt divided by the total 
number of outstanding ordinary units and subordinate units; and 
(b) “diluted distribution per unit” means the value of total 
distribution, divided by the total number of outstanding ordinary 
units and subordinate units. 
 
Process for reclassification of subordinate unit. 
17F. (1) The status of achievement of performance benchmark shall be certified 
by the statutory auditor of the InvIT for reclassification of subordinate 
units to ordinary units and shall be reviewed by the trustee and the audit 
committee of the investment manager. 
(2) If the performance benchmark is achieved at the end of the entitlemen t 
date, including extended period, if any; the subordinate units shall be

[Page 71]
71 
 
reclassified into equal number of ordinary units on a pari passu basis in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of subordinate units 
mentioned in the Term Sheet.  
Explanation 1. - The reclassification can happen for all subordinate units 
either together or on a piecemeal basis in accordance with the terms and 
conditions and on the achievement of performance benchmarks as 
disclosed in the Term Sheet. 
Explanation 2. - The subordinate units may be reclassified into ordinary 
units, in part or in full in accordance with the terms and conditions and 
on the achievement of performance benchmarks as disclosed in the 
Term Sheet. 
(3) If the performance benchmark is not achieved at the end of the 
entitlement date, including extended period, if any, the subordinate units 
shall be extinguished without any payment to the holder of subordinate 
units. 
(4) The board of directors of the investment manager shall consider 
reclassification of subordinate units i nto ordinary units or 
extinguishment of the subordinate units depending on the achievement 
of the performance benchmark and pass a resolution making the 
necessary recommendation to this effect to the trustee. 
(5) The recommendation for reclassification of the subordinate units into 
ordinary units or extinguishment of the subordinate units, as the case 
may be, shall be considered by the trustee and after ensuring compliance 
with the provisions of these regulations, the trustee may approve 
reclassification of the  subordinate units into ordinary units or 
extinguishment of the subordinate units, as the case may be, and intimate 
the same to the investment manager. 
(6) Pursuant to the approval of the trustee, the investment manager shall 
make the necessary intimation to t he recognised stock exchange, 
depositories and the Registrar and Transfer Agent.

[Page 72]
72 
 
(7) The investment manager shall ensure that the record date is disclosed as 
part of the intimation made under this regulation, at least two working 
days prior to the record date,  excluding the date of intimation and the 
record date. 
Explanation. – For the purpose of this chapter, record date shall mean 
the date from when subordinate units shall be reclassified as ordinary 
units. 
(8) The subordinate units upon being reclassified as ordinary units shall be 
listed on the recognised stock exchange(s) upon receipt of final listing 
and trading approval from such stock exchange(s).] 
 
252[CHAPTER IVB 
FRAMEWORK FOR UNIT BASED EMPLOYEE BENEFIT SCHEME 
Applicability 
17G. (1) The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable for all unit based 
employee benefit scheme introduced on or after the date of this chapter 
coming into force: 
Provided that the provisions pertaining to disclosure requirements in this 
chapter shall a pply to any unit based employee benefit scheme 
introduced prior and subsisting as on the date of this chapter coming into 
force. 
(2) For unit based employee benefit scheme introduced prior to this chapter 
coming into force, any unit acquired or any unit based employee benefit 
options granted by any employee benefit trust after the date of this 
chapter coming into force, shall be in compliance with this chapter.  
                                                           
252 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024.

[Page 73]
73 
 
Nature of scheme and implementation of scheme through trust. 
17H.  (1) The unit based employee benefit scheme shall be in the nature of 
employee unit option scheme. 
(2) Any offer of a unit based employee benefit scheme by the investment 
manager shall not result in any additional cost to the InvIT, its HoldCo 
and SPV. 
(3) The unit based employee benefit scheme shall be implemented through 
a separate employee benefit trust which shall be created by the 
investment manager. 
(4) The investment manager shall ensure that the trust deed under which 
the employee benefit trust is formed contains provisions specified in 
Part A of Schedule IX of these regulations. 
Manner of receiving units by the employee benefit trust. 
17I.    (1) The employee ben efit trust may receive units of the InvIT in the 
following manner for the purpose of offering unit based employee 
benefit scheme: 
(a) The investment manager may receive the units of InvIT in lieu of 
management fees, through the employee benefit trust, only for the 
limited purpose of providing unit based employee benefit on such 
units;  
Explanation. – For the above purpose, the investment manager may 
take full or part of the management fees in the form of units of 
InvIT.  
(b) A shareholder of investment manager may transfer full or part of 
the units of InvIT held by it to the employee benefit trust: 
Provided that in case a sponsor is also a sh areholder of the 
investment manager, then the sponsor group and associate of the

[Page 74]
74 
 
sponsor may also transfer full or part of the units held by them to 
the employee benefit trust;  
(c) The investment manager may transfer full or part of the units of 
InvIT held by it to the employee benefit trust; 
Explanation. – For the purpose of clauses (b) and (c), any transfer 
of units to the employee benefit trust shall be irrevocable and 
without any consideration in return i.e. shall constitute a gift to the 
employee benefit trust. 
(2) Subordinate units shall not be eligible for being transferred to the 
employee benefit trust or being made part of a unit based employee 
benefit scheme. 
(3) The cash accumulated by the employee benefit trust on account of 
distributions received on units of the InvIT held by such trust, income 
earned on the assets held by the employee benefit trust and receipt of 
exercise price from the employees of the investment manager on exercise 
of options, may be used by the employee benefit trust for acquiring units 
of the InvIT either from the secondary market or during any fresh 
issuance of units by the InvIT only for the purpose of using such units 
for unit based employee benefit scheme. 
(4) The employee benefit trust may subscribe to the units of the InvIT subject 
to compliance with the minimum lot for primary market transaction 
specified under these regulations: 
Provided that the minimum trading lot specified under these regulations 
shall not be applicable for vesting of units of a privately placed InvIT in 
employees of the investment manager and exercised by them: 
Provided further that in case of a privately placed InvIT, the employees 
of the investment manager may sell an odd lot quantity of the units vested 
upon them, in off-market transaction(s).

[Page 75]
75 
 
Secondary acquisition. 
17J.  (1) The employee benefit trust shall not be used as a mode for trading in units 
of the InvIT. 
(2) Secondary acquisition in a financial year by the employee benefit trust 
shall not exceed two per cent of the total outstanding units of the InvIT 
as at the end of the previous financial year. 
Explanation. - “secondary acquisition” means acquisition of existing 
units of the InvIT by the employee benefit trust on the platform of a 
recognised stock exchange for cash consideration for the purpose of unit 
based employee benefit scheme. 
(3) The total number of units under secondary acquisition held by the 
employee benefit trust shall at no point of time exceed five per cent of 
the total outstanding units of the InvIT as at the end of the financial year 
immediately prior to the year in which the unitholders approval is 
obtained for such secondary acquisition: 
Provided that the above ceiling limit shall exclude the units that are 
allotted to the employee benefit trust by way of a new issue or gift. 
(4) The investment ma nager shall obtain approval of unitholders for 
secondary acquisition as per sub-regulation (5) of regulation 22 of these 
regulations.  
(5) The employee benefit trust shall be required to hold the units acquired 
through secondary acquisition for a minimum period of six months. 
(6) The employee benefit trust shall disclose the period during which it plans 
to undertake secondary acquisition, in advance of at least seven working 
days (excluding the date of intimation and the date of start of such 
period), to the recognised stock exchanges and the depositories.  
(7) The employees of the investment manager shall not sell units of the InvIT 
held by them during the period referred in sub-regulation (6).

[Page 76]
76 
 
(8) The investment manager shall submit a list of its employees to the 
depositories along with relevant details of the employees including their 
Income Tax Permanent Account Number, in advance of at least seven 
working days (excluding the date of intimation and the date of start of 
the period during which the employee benefit trust p lans to undertake 
secondary acquisition).  
(9) The depositories shall impose lock -in on the holdings of units of InvIT 
by such employees and the lock -in shall be released after the period 
during which the employee benefit trust plans to undertake secondary 
acquisition, as disclosed to the recognised stock exchanges and 
depositories, has elapsed. 
Manner of allotment of units to the employee benefit trust by the InvIT. 
17K. (1)  An investment manager of any InvIT that allots units to the employee 
benefit trust in lieu of management fees to the investment manager shall 
ensure the following: 
(a) obtaining the approval of unitholders as per sub -regulation (5) of 
regulation 22 of these regulations before issuance of units to the 
employee benefit trust; 
(b) issuance of units t o the employee benefit trust only once in a 
financial year, within ninety days after the completion of the annual 
valuation exercise;  
(c) issuance of units to the employee benefit trust shall be made in 
compliance with the guidelines for preferential issue of  units 
specified by the Board: 
(d) allotting such units directly to the employee benefit trust so that 
such units are used exclusively for unit based employee benefit 
scheme.

[Page 77]
77 
 
Role of nomination and remuneration committee. 
17L. (1) The nomination and remuneration committee of the investment manager 
shall be responsible for the administration and superintendence of the 
unit based employee benefit scheme.  
(2) The nomination and remuneration committee shall formulate the detailed 
terms and conditions of the unit based employee benefit scheme which 
shall include the provisions as specified in Part B of Schedule IX of these 
regulations. 
(3) The nomination and remuneration committee of the investment manager 
shall frame suitable policies and p rocedures to ensure compliance with 
all securities laws particularly the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India I (Prohibition of Fraudulent and 
Unfair Trade Practices relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 
2003 by the investment manager, its directors, its key managerial 
personnel, sponsor, recipients of units under the unit based employee 
benefit scheme, the employee benefit trust and trustee of the employee 
benefit trust. 
Variation of terms of the scheme. 
17M. (1) The investment manager may vary the terms of the unit based employee 
benefit scheme offered pursuant to an earlier resolution of the 
unitholders but not yet exercised by the employees, if such v ariation is 
not prejudicial to the interests of the employees.  
(2) The investment manager shall obtain the approval of unitholders as per 
sub-regulation (5) of regulation 22 of these regulations before varying 
the terms of the unit based employee benefit scheme. 
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub -regulation (1), the investment 
manager may vary the terms of the unit based employee benefit scheme 
to fulfil any legal or regulatory obligation without seeking unitholders’

[Page 78]
78 
 
approval. 
(4) The explanatory statement to t he notice for passing a resolution for 
variation of terms of a unit based employee benefit scheme and the 
resolution proposed to be passed by the unitholders shall disclose 
complete details of the variation, the rationale therefor, details of any 
employees that may be the beneficiaries of such variation and 
information as specified in Part C of Schedule IX of these regulations or 
as otherwise specified by the Board. 
(5) The investment manager may reprice the options which are not 
exercised, whether or not they have been vested, if the scheme was 
rendered unattractive due to fall in the price of the units in the stock 
market:  
Provided that the investment manager shall ensure that such repricing is 
not detrimental to the interests of the employees and approval of  the 
unitholders has been obtained for such repricing as per sub-regulation (5) 
of regulation 22 of these regulations. 
Listing. 
17N. (1) In case a new issue of units is made under any unit based employee 
benefit scheme, units so issued shall be listed immediate ly on all 
recognised stock exchange(s) where the existing units are listed, 
subject to the following conditions: 
(a) The unit based employee benefit scheme is in compliance with these 
regulations; 
(b) A statement, as specified in Part D of Schedule IX of these regulations, 
is filed and the investment manager obtains an in -principle approval 
from the recognised stock exchange(s); 
(c) As and when an exercise is made, the investment manager notifies the 
concerned recognised stock exchange(s) as per the statement as 
specified in Part E of Schedule IX of these regulations.

[Page 79]
79 
 
Trustee of the employee benefit trust. 
17O. (1)  The trustee of the employee benefit trust shall be a trustee registered 
with the Board under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993. 
(2) The trustee of the InvIT shall not act as the trustee of the employee 
benefit trust.  
(3) The employee benefit trust or its trustee shall not be eligible to vote on 
account of the units of the InvIT held by such trust. 
Insider trading norms. 
17P. (1) The provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India  
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair 
Trade Practices relating to the Securities Market) Reg ulations, 2003 
shall be applicable to the investment manager, its directors, its key 
managerial personnel, sponsor, recipients of units under the unit based 
employee benefit scheme, the employee benefit trust and trustee of the 
employee benefit trust. 
(2) The relaxations and exemptions provided under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015 in relation to employee stock option scheme shall mutatis-mutandis 
apply to the unit based employee benefit scheme offer ed in accordance 
with this chapter. 
(3) The trading window restrictions specified under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015 shall not apply in respect of issue of units by the InvIT to the 
employee benefit trust, in lieu of management fees, for providing unit 
based employee benefit in accordance with this chapter.

[Page 80]
80 
 
Other requirements. 
17Q. (1)  The units held by the employee benefit trust shall be used only for the 
purpose of offering unit based employee benefit scheme. 
(2) The employee benefit trust shall not undertake any transfer or sale of 
units of the InvIT held by it except for providing unit based employee 
benefits in accordance with this chapter.  
(3) The units of the InvIT transferred to the employee bene fit trust shall be 
locked in by the depository and shall be released by the depository only 
for the transfer of units to the employees of the investment manager as 
per the unit based employee benefit scheme. 
(4) There shall be a minimum vesting period of one y ear for unit based 
employee benefit scheme. 
(5) The unappropriated inventory of units which are not backed by grants, 
acquired through secondary acquisition by the employee benefit trust, 
shall be appropriated within a reasonable period which shall not extend 
beyond the end of the subsequent financial year, or the second 
subsequent financial year:  
Provided that the extension up to the second subsequent financial year 
shall be subject to the approval of the nomination and remuneration 
committee of the investment manager. 
(6) No unit based employee benefit scheme shall be offered unless the 
disclosures as specified in Part G of Schedule IX of these regulations are 
made by the investment manager to the prospective option grantees. 
(7) The investment manager implementing unit based employee benefit 
scheme shall follow the requirements including the disclosure 
requirements of the Accounting Standards prescribed by the Central 
Government in terms of section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 
including any 'Guidance Note on Accou nting for employee share-based 
Payments' issued in that regard from time to time.

[Page 81]
81 
 
(8) The investment manager granting options to its employees pursuant to a 
unit based employee benefit scheme shall be free to determine the 
exercise price subject to conforming to the accounting policies specified 
in sub-regulation (7) of this regulation. 
(9) The investment manager shall ensure that the explanatory statement to 
the notice prepared for convening a meeting of unitholders to obtain their 
approval for a unit based employ ee benefit scheme and the resolution 
proposed to be passed by the unitholders contain the information as 
specified in Part C of Schedule IX of these regulations or as otherwise 
specified by the Board.  
(10) The cash accumulated by the employee benefit trust shall be deployed in 
liquid assets, which shall be unencumbered. 
(11) The unitholding of the employee benefit trust shall be shown as “non -
sponsor and non-public” unitholding for the purpose of disclosure to the 
recognised stock exchanges. 
(12) In case of change in investment manager, the outgoing investment 
manager shall no longer receive management fees or units in lieu of 
management fees from the InvIT and accordingly shall not offer any 
fresh unit based employee benefit scheme based on the units of such 
InvIT.  
(13) In case of change in investment manager, the employee benefit trust of 
the outgoing investment manager shall sell and/or dispose of the units 
held by it within six months from the date of change of the investment 
manager. 
Disclosures. 
17R. (1) The investment manager shall disclose details of the unit based employee 
benefit scheme being implemented in the Annual Report of the InvIT, 
as specified in Part F of Schedule IX of these regulations.

[Page 82]
82 
 
(2) The investment manager shall include the value of options granted under a  
unit based employee benefit scheme as a part of its employee compensation 
and shall disclose the same in the Annual Report.] 
CHAPTER V 
INVESTMENT CONDITIONS, RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS, BORROWING 
AND VALUATION OF ASSETS  
 
Investment conditions and dividend policy 
18. (1) The investment by a n InvIT shall only be in 253[holdco and/ or ] SPVs or 
infrastructure projects or securities in India in accordance with these regulations 
and the investment strategy as detailed in the offer document or Placement 
memorandum. 
(2) In case of PPP projects, the InvIT shall mandatorily invest in the infrastructure 
projects through 254[holdco and/ or] SPV. 
(3) The InvIT may invest in infrastructure projects through SPVs subject to the 
following,– 
(a) no other shareholder or partner of the SPV shall 255[exercise] any rights 
that prevents the InvIT from complying with the provisions of these 
regulations and an agreement 256[has been] entered into with such 
shareholders or partners to that effect prior to investment in the SPV: 
  
 257[Provided that the shareholders’ agreement or partnership agreement 
shall provide for an  appropriate mechanism for resolution of disputes 
                                                           
253 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
254 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (A mendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
255 Substituted for the word “have” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
256 Substituted ibid for the words “shall be”.  
257 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 83]
83 
 
between the InvIT and the other shareholders or partners in the holdco 
and/or the SPV:  
 
 Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall prevail in 
case of inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations 
cast upon an InvIT under these regulations.] 
  
(b) in case the SPV is a company 258[/LLP], the investment manager, in 
consultation with the trustee, shall appoint 259[majority of] the board of 
directors or governing board of such SPVs 260[as applicable] ; 
(c) the investment manager shall ensure that the in every meeting including 
annual general meeting of the SPV, the voting of the InvIT is exercised.  
261[(3A) The InvIT may invest in infrastructure projects through holdcos subject to the 
following,- 
(a) the ultimate holding interest of the InvIT in the underlying SPV(s) is not 
less than twenty six per cent; 
(b) no other shareholder or partner of the holdco or the SPV(s) shall 
262[exercise] any rights that prevent the InvIT, the HoldCo or the SPV(s) 
from complying with the provisions of these regulations and an 
agreement 263[has been] entered into with such shareholders or partners 
to that effect prior to investment in the holdco/SPV:  
                                                           
258 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations,  
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
259 Substituted for “ not less than one authorized representative on ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016  
260 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
261 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
262 Substituted for the word “have” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
263 Substituted ibid for the words “shall be”.

[Page 84]
84 
 
264[Provided that the shareholders’ agreement or partnership agreement 
shall provide for an  appropriate mechanism for resolution of disputes 
between the InvIT and the other shareholders or partners in the holdco 
and/or the SPV:  
Provided further that the provisions of  these regulations shall prevail in 
case of inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations 
cast upon an InvIT under these regulations.] 
(c) the investment manager, in consultation with the Trustee, shall appoint 
the majority of the Board of dire ctors or governing board of the holdco 
and SPV(s); 
the investment manager shall ensure that in every meeting including annual general 
meeting of the Holdco and SPV(s), the voting of the InvIT is exercised;] 
(4) 265[ In case of InvIT as specified under sub -regulation (2) of regulation 14, the 
InvIT shall invest not less than eighty per cent of the value of the InvIT assets 
in eligible infrastructure projects either directly or through holdcos or through 
SPVs: 
Provided that un -invested funds may be invested in instruments as provided 
under 266[***] clause (b) of sub-regulation 5 of Regulation 18.] 
(5) In case of InvITs as specified under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 14,– 
                                                           
264 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
265 Substituted for “In case of InvIT as specified under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 14, the InvIT shall invest only 
in eligible infrastructure projects or securities of companies or partnership interests of LLPs in infrastructure sector:  
Provided that un-invested funds may be invested in liquid funds or government securities or money market instruments 
or cash equivalents. 
Explanation.- Companies or LLPs in infrastructure sector shall mean those companies or LLPs which derive not less 
than eighty per cent. of their operating income from infrastructure sector as per the audited accounts of the previous 
financial year .” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
266 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026. Prior to its omission it read as ‘sub-clause (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi), (vii) and (viii) 
of’.

[Page 85]
85 
 
(a) not less than eighty per cent. of the value of 267[InvIT] the assets shall 
be invested, proportionate to the holding of the InvITs, in completed and 
revenue generating infrastructure projects subject to the following; 
(i) if the investment has been made through a 268[holdco and/ or] 
SPV269[(s)], whether by way of equity or debt or equity linked 
instruments or partnership interest, only the portion of direct 
investments in 270[completed and revenue generating] projects 
by such 271[holdco and/ or SPV(s) ] shall be considered under 
this sub-regulation and the remaining portion shall be included 
under clause (b); 
(ii) if any project is implemented in stages, the part of the project 
which can be categorised as completed and revenue generating 
project shall be considered under this sub -regulation and the 
remaining portion shall be included under clause (b); 
(b) not more than twenty per cent. of value of the 272[InvIT] assets, 273[***] 
shall be invested in,– 
(i) under-construction infrastructure projects, whether directly or 
through 274[holdco and/ or] SPVs: 
Provided that investment in such assets shall not exceed ten 
per cent. of the value of the 275[InvIT assets]; 
                                                           
267 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
268 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
269 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
270 Substituted for “eligible infrastruct ure” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
271 Substituted for “SPVs” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
272 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
273 Omitted “proportionate to the holding of the InvITs, ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
274 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
275 Substituted for “assets of the InvIT” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 86]
86 
 
(ii) listed or unlisted debt of companies or body corporate in 
infrastructure sector: 
Provided that this shall not include any investment made in 
debt of the 276[holdco and/ or SPV(s)]; 
(iii) equity shares of companies listed on a recognized stock 
exchange in India which derive not less than eighty per cent. 
of their operating income from infrastructure sector as per the 
audited accounts of the previous financial year; 
(iv) government securities; 
(v) money market instruments277[*] or cash equivalents; 
278[(vi)      unlisted equity shares of a company which provides project 
management and other in cidental services, subject to the 
following conditions: 
A. such services are provided exclusively to the InvIT, its 
HoldCo(s) and SPV(s); and 
B. the entire shareholding or interest in such company is 
held by the InvIT either directly or through its HoldCos  
or SPVs. 
(vii)        units of liquid mutual funds schemes where the credit risk value 
is at least 279[10] and which fall under the Class A-I 280[or Class 
B-I] in the potential risk class matrix as specified by the Board; 
(viii)         interest rate derivatives, including interest rate futures, forward 
rate contract and interest rate swap, subject to the following 
conditions: 
                                                           
276 Substituted for “SPV” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
277 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025. Prior to the omission the words were “, liquid mutual funds”. 
278 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025. 
279 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026. Prior to its substitution it read as ‘12’. 
280 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026.

[Page 87]
87 
 
A. investment in interest rate derivative shall be solely to 
hedge an underlying interest rate risk in the existing 
borrowings which qualifies as an effective hedge as per 
the applicable Indian Accounting Standards; 
B. that such investment shall only be made as a user or a 
client of such interest rate derivative, and shall not be in 
the nature of market making;  
C. adequate disclo sures regarding investment in interest 
rate derivative shall be made in the annual report; 
D. for valuation of the investment in interest rate derivative, 
norms applicable for Mutual Funds shall be followed; 
and 
E. the requirements applicable to the client s or users of 
interest rate derivatives, including those specified by the 
Reserve Bank of India, are complied with.] 
 
281[ix) SPVs as referred to in proviso to regulation 2(1)(zy)(ii).] 
 
(c) if the conditions specified in clauses (a) and (b) are breached on account 
of market movements of the price of the underlying assets or securities, 
the investment manager shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure 
that the conditions as specified in this regulation are satisfied within six 
months of such breach: 
Provided that the period may be extended to one year subject to approval 
from investors in accordance with regulation 22. 
                                                           
281 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026.

[Page 88]
88 
 
282[(5A) The investment conditions as specified at sub-regulation (4) and (5) of regulation 
18 and sub -regulation shall be complied at the time of Offer document/placement 
memorandum and therafter.] 
(6) With respect to distributions made by the InvIT and the 283[holdco and/or ] 
SPV,- 
(a) not less than ninety per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the SPV 
shall be distributed to the InvIT 284[/holdco]in proportion of its holding 
in the SPV subject to applicable provisions in Companies Act, 2013 or 
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008; 
(b) not less than ninety per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the InvIT 
shall be distributed to the unit holders; 
285[(ba) with regard to distribution of net distributable cash flows by the holdco 
to the InvIT, the following shall be complied: 
(i) with respect to the cash flows received by the holdco from 
underlying SPVs, 100% of such cash flows received by th e holdco 
shall be distributed to the InvIT286[:] 
287[Provided that if the net distributable cash flow generated by the 
holdco on its own is negative; the holdco may adjust it against the 
cash flows received from its underlying SPVs provided that it makes 
appropriate disclosures in this regard to the unitholders in such form 
and manner as may be specified by the Board.] 
                                                           
282 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
283 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
284 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
285 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
286 Substituted for “; and”  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. 
287 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.

[Page 89]
89 
 
(ii) with respect to the cash flows generated by the holdco on its own, 
not less than 90% of such net distributable cash flows shall be 
distributed by the holdco to the InvIT.] 
288[(bb) cash flows generated by all InvIT assets shall be considered.] 
289 [(c) such distributions shall, 
(i) be declared not less than once every six months in every financial year 
in case of publicly offered InvITs;  
(ii) be declared not less than once every financial year in case of privately 
placed InvITs; and  
(iii) shall be made within five working days from the record date. 
Explanation. — For the purpose of above clause, record date for the payment 
of distribution shal l be two working days from the date of the 
declaration of distribution, excluding the date of declaration and the 
record date.] 
(d) subject to 290[sub-]clause (c), such distribution shall be 291[***] in the 
manner as mentioned in the offer document or placement memorandum. 
292[(e)  any amount remaining unclaimed or unpaid out of the distributions 
declared by a InvIT in terms of sub-clause (c), shall be transferred to the 
‘Investor Protection and Education Fund’ constituted by the Board in 
terms of section 11 of the Act, in such manner as may be specified by 
the Board293[;]] 
                                                           
288 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025. 
289 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendm ent) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 26.11.2024. Prior to the substitution the words were “such distributions shall be declared and 
made not less than once every six months in every financial year in case of publicly offered InvITs and not less than 
once every year in case of privately placed InvITs and shall be made not later than f ifteen days from the date of such 
declaration;” 
290 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
291 Omitted “ as per the dates and ” by Securities and Exchange Board of Ind ia (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
292 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 14.02.2023. 
293 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.10.2023.

[Page 90]
90 
 
 294[Provided that the amount transferred to Investor Protection and 
Education fund shall not bear any interest.] 
295[(f) the unclaimed or unpaid amount of a person that has been transferred to 
the Investor Protection and Education Fund in terms of sub-clause (e), may be 
claimed in such manner as may be specified by the Board.] 
(7) If any infrastructure asset is sold by the InvIT or 296[holdco or] SPV or if the 
equity shares or interest in the 297[holdco/] SPV are sold by the InvIT,– 
(a) if the InvIT 298[***] proposes to re-invest the sale proceeds into another 
infrastructure asset, it shall not be required to distribute any sales 
proceeds to the InvIT or to the investors; 
(b) If the InvIT 299[***] proposes not to invest the sales proceeds into any 
other infrastructure asset  300[within a period of one year ], it shall be 
require to distribute the same in accordance with sub-regulation (6). 
(8) If the distributions are not made within 301[the timeline specified in clause (c) 
of sub -regulation (6) ], then the investment manager shall be liable to pay 
interest to the unit holders at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum till the 
distribution is made and such interest shall be not be recovered in the form of 
fees or any other form payable to the investment manager by the InvIT. 
(9) An InvIT shall not invest in units of other InvITs. 
                                                           
294 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 20.10.2023. 
295 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 20.10.2023. 
296 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
297 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
298 Omitted “or SPV” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
299 Omitted “or SPV” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
300 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
301 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendm ent) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 26.11.2024. Prior to the substitution the words were “fifteen days of declaration”.

[Page 91]
91 
 
(10) An InvIT shall not undertake lending to any person  302[other than the holdco/ 
SPV(s) in which the InvIT has invested in]: 
Provided that investment in debt securities shall not be considered as lending. 
(11) An InvIT shall hold an infrastructure asset for a period of not less than three 
years from the date of purchase of such asset by the InvIT, directly or through 
303[holdco and/or] SPV: 
Provided that this shall not apply to investment in securities of companies in 
infrastructure sector other than SPVs. 
(12) In case of any co-investment with any person(s) in any transaction,– 
(a) the investment by the other person(s) shall not be at terms more 
favourable than those to the InvIT; 
(b) the investment shall not provide any rights to the person(s) which shall 
prevent the InvIT from complying with the provisions of these 
regulations; 
(c) the agreement with such person(s) shall include the minimum 
percentage of distribut able cash flows that will be distributed and 
entitlement of the InvIT to receive not less than pro rata distributions 
and mode for resolution of any disputes between the InvIT and the other 
person(s). 
(13) No schemes shall be launched under the InvIT.  
(14) The Board may specify any additional conditions for investments by the InvIT 
as deemed fit. 
 
Related party transactions 
19. (1) All related party transactions shall be on an arms -length basis in accordance 
with relevant accounting standards, in the best interest of the unit holders, 
consistent with the strategy and investment objectives of the InvIT. 
(2) All related party transactions of an InvIT shall be disclosed,– 
                                                           
302 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
303 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 92]
92 
 
(a) in the offer document or placement memorandum with respect to any 
such transactions entered into prio r to the offer of units and any such 
proposed transactions subsequent to the offer; 
(b) to the designated stock exchanges and unit holders periodically in 
accordance with the listing agreement and these regulations. 
(3) With respect to related party transactions with respect to 304[***] InvITs entered 
into after initial 305[public] offer, if,– 
(a) the total value of all the related party transactions, in a financial year, 
pertaining to acquisition or sale of assets 306[whether directly or through 
holdco or through SPV,] or investments into securities exceeds five per 
cent. of the value of 307[the] InvIT 308[assets]; or 
(b) the value of the funds borrowed from related parties, in a financial year, 
exceeds five per cent. of the total consolidated borrowings of the InvIT 
309[,holdco and the SPV(s)], 
approval from the unit holders shall be obtained prior to entering into any such 
subsequent transaction with any related party in accordance with regulation 22. 
(4) Transaction between two or more of the InvITs with a common investment 
manager or sponsor, shall be deemed to be related party transactions for each 
of the InvITs and provisions of regulation 19 shall apply: 
Provided that this sub-regulation shall also apply if the investment managers or 
sponsors of the InvITs are different entities but are associates.  
                                                           
304 Omitted “publicly offered” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
305 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
306 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
307 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
308 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
309 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 93]
93 
 
(5) With respect to any related party transaction, details of any fees or commissions 
received or to be received by 310[such related party (ies) ] shall be adequately 
disclosed to the designated stock exchanges. 
(6) Where any of the related parties have an interest in a business which competes 
or is likely to compete, either directly or indirectly, with the activities of the 
InvIT, the following details shall be disclosed in the offer document or 
placement memorandum,– 
(a) details of the such business including an explanation as to how such 
business shall compete with the InvIT; 
(b) a declaration that the related party shall perform its duty in relation to 
the InvIT independent of its related business; 
(c) declaration as to whether any acquisition of such business by the InvIT 
is intended and if so, details of the same thereof. 
(7) The Board may specify additional guidelines with respect to related party 
transactions, as it deems fit. 
 
Borrowings and deferred payments 
20. 311[(1) An InvIT, whose units are listed on a recognized stock exchange, may issue debt 
securities in the manner specified by the Board: 
Provided that such debt securities shall be listed on recognized stock 
exchange(s).] 
 312[(2)] The aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the InvIT 313[, 
holdco and the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents shall 314[not] exceed 
315[seventy] per cent. of the value of the InvIT assets. 
                                                           
310 Substituted for “any person or entity which is an associate of the related party” by Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016  
311 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment)  
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
312 Re-numbered ibid. 
313 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
314 Substituted for the word “never” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019 
315 Substituted ibid for the words “forty nine”.

[Page 94]
94 
 
316[Explanation 1. – Investment by InvITs in overnight mutual funds, characterized by 
their investments in overnight securi ties, having maturity of one day, shall be 
considered as cash and cash equivalent.  
 Explanation 2. – The amount of cash and cash equivalent shall be excluded from 
the value of the assets of the InvIT.] 
317[(3)] If the aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the InvIT 318[, 
holdco and the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents exceed twenty five per cent. of 
the value of the InvIT assets, for any further borrowing,– 
  319[a) upto forty nine percent, an InvIT shall -  
(i) obtain 320[issuer credit rating of the InvIT from]  a credit rating agency 
registered with the Board; and  
(ii) seek approval of unitholders in the manner as specified in Regulation 
22.  
  b) above forty nine percent, an InvIT shall -  
(i) obtain 321[issuer credit rating of the InvIT of] “AAA” or equivalent322[*] 
from a credit rating agency registered with the Board;  
                                                           
316 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 01.04.2023. 
317 Re-numbered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017  
318 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
319 Substituted by t he Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019. prior to the substitution, clauses (a) and (b) read as follows: 
“(a)credit rating shall be obtained from a credit rating agency registered with the Board; and  
(b)approval of unit holders shall be obtained in the manner as specified in regulation 22.”  
320 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendmen t) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025. Prior to the substitution the words were “credit rating from”. 
321 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of In dia (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendmen t) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025. Prior to the substitution the words were “a credit rating of”. 
322 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 2. 4.2025. Prior to the Omission the words were “ for its consolidated borrowing and the proposed 
borrowing,”.

[Page 95]
95 
 
(ii) utilize the funds only for acquisition or development of infrastructure 
projects 323[or for such other purposes as may be specified by the Board];  
(iii) have a track record of atleast six distributions, in terms of sub -
regulation (6) of regulation 18, on a continuous basis, post listing, 324[ as at 
the end of the quarter preceding the date on which] the enhanced borrowings 
are proposed to be made325[:]  
326[Provided that for computing six continuous distributions, maximum one 
distribution per quarter shall be considered and the distributions shall be 
consistent with the distribution policy disclosed to the unitholders;] 
(iv) obtain the approval of unitholders in the manner specified in sub -
regulation (5A) of regulation 22.] 
327[(4)] If the conditions specified in sub -regulations (1) and (2) are breached on account 
of market movements of the price of the underlying assets or securities, the 
investment manager shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure that the 
conditions are satisfied within six months of such breach. 
 
Valuation of assets 
21. (1) The valuer shall not be an associate of the sponsor(s) or investment manager or 
trustee and shall have not less than five years of experience in valuation of 
infrastructure assets. 
                                                           
323 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 17.04.2026. 
324 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendmen t) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025. Prior to the substitution the words were “in the years preceding the financial year 
in which”. 
325 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendmen t) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025. Prior to the substitution the symbol was “;”. 
326 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendme nt) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025. 
327 Re-numbered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017

[Page 96]
96 
 
(2) Full valuation includes a detailed valuation of all assets of the InvIT by the 
valuer including physical inspection of every infrastr ucture project by the 
valuer. 
(3) Full valuation report shall include the mandatory minimum disclosures as 
specified in Schedule V. 
(4) A full valuation shall be conducted by the valuer not less than once in every 
financial year: 
328[Provided that such full valuatio n shall be conducted as at the end of the 
financial year ending March 31st and the valuation report shall be submitted by 
the investment manager to the designated stock exchange(s) along with the 
annual financial results.] 
(5) A half yearly valuation of the as sets of the InvIT shall be conducted by the 
valuer 329[as at the end of ] the half-year ending September 30th for a publicly 
offered InvIT for incorporating any key changes in the previous six months and 
such half yearly valuation report shall be 330[submitted by the investment 
manager to the designated stock exchange(s) along with the quarterly financial 
results for the quarter ending September 30th.] 
331[***] 
332[(5A) If the consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of an InvIT, in 
terms of regulation 20 of these regulations, exceeds forty nine per cent.; a 
quarterly valuation of the assets of InvIT shall be conducted by the valuer as at 
                                                           
328 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. Prior to substitution, it read as: “Provided that such full valuation shall be 
conducted at the end of the financial year ending March 31st within two months from the date of end of such year.” 
329 Substituted for the word “for” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. 
330 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange B oard of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 27.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, it read as “prepared within one month from the date of 
end of such half year:” 
331 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. Prior to omission, it read as “Provided that in case the consolidated borrowings 
and deferred payments of an InvIT, in terms of Regulation 20, is above forty nine per cent, the valuation of the assets 
of such InvIT shall be conducted by the valuer for quarter ending June, September and December, for incorporating 
any key changes in the previous quarter and such quarterly r eport shall be prepared within one month from the date 
of the end of such quarter.” It was inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019 
332 Inserted by the Securitie s and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.

[Page 97]
97 
 
the end of the quarters ending June, September and December for incorporating 
any key changes from the previous quarter and such quarterly valuation report 
shall be submitted by the investment manager to the designated stock 
exchange(s) along with the quarterly financial result s of the corresponding 
quarter: 
Provided that InvIT shall not be required to submit the quarterly valuation 
report for the quarter ending on September 30th if such InvIT has submitted 
half yearly valuation in terms of sub -regulation (5) of this regulation as at the 
end of half year ending September 30th.] 
(6) Valuation reports received by the investment manager shall be submitted by the 
investment manager to the designated stock exchanges within fifteen days from 
the receipt of such valuation reports333[:] 
334[Provided that the valuation reports specified under sub -regulation (4), sub-
regulation (5), and sub -regulation (5A) of this regulation shall be submitted 
within the timelines as specified in these sub-regulations.] 
(7) Prior to any issue of units by publicly offered InvIT other than bonus issue, the 
valuer shall undertake full valuation of all the InvIT assets and include the same 
in the Offer Document: 
Provided that such valuation report shall not be more than six months old at the 
time of such offer: 
Provided further that this shall not apply in cases where full valuation has been 
undertaken not more than six months prior to such issue and no material 
changes have occurred thereafter.  
(8) For any transaction of purchase or sale of infrastructure projects, whether  
directly or through 335[holdco and/or] SPVs, for publicly offered InvITs,– 
(a) a full valuation of the specific project shall be undertaken by the 
valuer; 
                                                           
333 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. 
334 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
335 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trust s) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 98]
98 
 
(b) if,– 
(1) in case of a purchase transaction, the asset is proposed to be 
purchased at a value greater than hundred ten per cent of the 
value of the asset as assessed by the valuer; 
(2) in case of a sale transaction, the asset is proposed to be sold 
at a value less than ninety per cent. of the value of the asset 
as assessed by the valuer, 
approval of the unit holders shall be obtained in accordance with 
regulation 22. 
(9) No valuer shall undertake valuation of the same project for more than four years 
consecutively: 
Provided that the valuer may be reappointed after a period of not less than two 
years from the date it ceases to be the valuer of the InvIT. 
 336[***]  
(11) In case of any material development that may have an impact on the valuation 
of the assets of the InvIT, then investment manager of a publicly offered InvIT 
shall require the valuer to undertake full valuation of the infrastructure project 
under consideration within not more than two months from the date of such 
event and disclose the same to the trustee and the designated stock exchanges 
within fifteen days of such valuation. 
(12) The valuer shall not unde rtake valuation of any assets in which it has either 
been involved with the acquisition or disposal within the last twelve months 
other than such cases where the valuer was engaged by the InvIT for such 
acquisition or disposal. 
 
                                                           
336 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as follows: 
“(10) Any valuation undertaken by any valuer shall be in compliance with by international valuation standards and 
valuation standards as may be specified by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India for valuation of 
infrastructure assets or such other valuation standards as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that in case of any conflict, standards specified by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India shall 
prevail.”

[Page 99]
99 
 
 
CHAPTER VI 
RIGHTS OF UNIT HOLDERS, GENERAL OBLIGATIONS, DISCLOSURES AND 
REPORTING 
 
Rights and meetings of unit holders 
22. (1) The unit holder shall have the rights to receive income or distributions as 
provided for in the offer document or placement memorandum. 
(2) With respect to any matter requiring approval of the unit holders,- 
(a) a resolution shall be considered as passed when the votes cast by unit 
holders, so entitled and voting, in favour of the resolution exceed a 
certain percentage as specified in these regulations, of 337[total votes 
cast]; 
338[(aa)      the voting threshold specified under these regulations shall be calculated 
on the basis of unit holders present and voting.  
Explanation. — The unit holders voting through the electronic voting 
facility and postal ballot shall be counted for the determination of unit 
holders present and voting;] 
(b) the voting may also be done by postal ballot or electronic mode; 
(c) a notice of not less th an twenty one days shall be provided to the unit 
holders339[:] 
340[Provided that a meeting of unit holders may be called after giving 
shorter notice than that specified in this clause if consent, in writing or 
by electronic mode, is accorded thereto - 
                                                           
337 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 27.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, the words were “votes cast against”. 
338 Inserted vide  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infras tructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 27.09.2024. 
339 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 27.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, the symbol was “;” 
340 Inserted vide  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 27.09.2024.

[Page 100]
100 
 
i. in case of an annual meeting, by not less than ninety-five percent 
of the unit holders entitled to vote thereat; and  
ii. in case of any other meeting, by majority of the unitholders in 
number entitled to vote thereat and who represent not less than 
ninety-five percent of such part of the units by value as gives a 
right to vote at the meeting.] 
(d) voting by any person who is a related party in such transaction as well 
as associates of such person(s) shall not be considered on the specific 
issue; 
(e) investment manager shall be responsible for all the activities pertaining 
to conducting of meeting of the unit holder, subject to overseeing by the 
trustee: 
Provided that in issues pertaining to the investment manager such as 
change in investment manager including re moval of the investment 
manager or change in control of the investment manager, trustee shall 
convene and handle all activities pertaining to conduct of the meetings: 
Provided further that in respect of issues pertaining to the trustee 
Including change in the trustee, the trustee shall not be involved in any 
manner in the conduct of the meeting.  
341[(f)     for  all unit holder meetings, the investment manager shall provide an 
option to the unit holders to attend the meeting through video 
conferencing or other audio visual means and the option of remote 
electronic voting in the manner as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
(3) 342[For an] InvITs,– 
(a) an annual meeting of all unit holders shall be held not less than once a 
year within one hundred twenty days from the end of financial year and 
the time between two meetings shall not exceed fifteen months; 
                                                           
341 Inserted vide  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 27.09.2024. 
342 Substituted for “ With respect to publicly offered ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 101]
101 
 
(b) with respect to the annual meeting of unit holders,– 
(i) any information that is required to be disclosed to the unit holders 
and any issue that, in the ordinary course of business, may require 
approval of the unit holders may be taken up in the meeting 
including,– 
(1) latest annual accounts and performance of the InvIT; 
(2) approval of auditor and fees of such auditor, as may be 
required; 
(3) latest valuation reports; 
(4) appointment of valuer, as may be required; 
(5) any other issue; 
(ii) for any issue taken up in such meetings which require approval 
from the unit holders 343[, votes cast in favour of the resolution shall 
be more than fifty per cent of the total votes cast for the resolution 
unless otherwise specified under these regulations]; 
(4) In case of,– 
(a) any approval from unit holders required under regulation 18, 19 and 21; 
(b) any transaction, other than any borrowing, value of which is equal to or 
greater than twenty five per cent. of the InvIT assets; 
344[(c) any borrowing in terms of the limit specified under clause (a) of sub -
regulation (3) of regulation 20;] 
(d) any issue of units after 345[ initial public offer by an InvIT] , in whatever 
form, other than any issue of units which may be considered by the 
Board under sub-regulation (5); 
(e) increasing period for compliance with investment conditions to one year 
in accordance with clause (c) of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 18; 
                                                           
343 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 27.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, the words were “other than as specified in sub-regulation 
(6) under, votes cast in favour of the resolution shall be more than the votes cast against the resolution”. 
344 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019. Prior to substitution, clause (c) read as follows: 
“(c) any borrowing in excess of specified limit as required under sub -regulation (2) of regulation 20;” 
345 Substituted for “initial offer by a publicly offered InvIT” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 102]
102 
 
(f) any issue, in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the 
sponsor(s) or trustee or inves tment manager, is material and requires 
approval of the unit holders, if any; 
346[***] 
(g) any issue for which the Board or the designated stock exchanges 
requires such approval under this sub-regulation, 
approval from unit holders shall be required where votes cast in favour of the 
resolution shall 347[be more than] the 348[fifty per cent of the total votes cast for] 
the resolution. 
(5) In case of,– 
(a) any change in investment manager including removal of the investment 
manager or change in control of the investment manager; 
(b) any material change in investment strategy or any change in the 
management fees of the InvIT; 
(c) the 349[***] 350[trustee and] investment manager proposing to seek 
delisting of units of the InvIT 351[under clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) 
of regulation 17];  
(d) any issue, not in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion 
of the sponsor(s) or investment manager or trustee requires approval of 
the unit holders; 
(e) any issue for which the Board or the des ignated stock exchanges 
requires approval under this sub-regulation; 
(f) any issue taken up on request of the unit holders including,– 
                                                           
346 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. Before the omission, the clause read as under:  
“(fa)  de-classification of the status of sponsor;” 
347 Substituted for “ not be less than one and half times ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
348 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 27.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, the words were “the votes cast against”. 
349 Words “sponsor(s) or” omitted by the Securities and Exch ange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019 
350 Inserted ibid 
351 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019

[Page 103]
103 
 
(i) removal of the investment manager and appointment of another 
investment manager to the InvIT; 
(ii) removal of the auditor  and appointment of another auditor to the 
InvIT; 
(iii) removal of the valuer and appointment of another valuer to the 
InvIT; 
(iv) delisting of an InvIT, if the unit holders have sufficient reason to 
believe that such delisting would act in the interest of  the unit 
holders; 
(v) any issue which the unit holders have sufficient reason to believe 
that is detrimental to the interest of the unit holders;  
(vi) change in the trustee if the unit holders have sufficient reason to 
believe that acts of such trustee is detrimental to the interest of the 
unit holders, 
352[(g)  introduction of unit based employee benefit scheme after an initial 
offer; 
(h) unit based employee benefit scheme proposed at the time of initial offer; 
Explanation. – For any unit based employee benefit scheme proposed 
at the time of initial offer, the investment manager shall obtain the 
approval of the unitholders on such proposed scheme after listing of the 
InvIT and shall ensure that the scheme is not implemented until such 
approval is obtained; 
(i) acquisition of units by the employee benefit trust as specified in sub -
regulation (3) of regulation 17I: 
Provided that approval by way of a separate resolution shall be required 
in case of secondary acquisition and such approval shall mention the 
                                                           
352 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024.

[Page 104]
104 
 
percentage of secondary acquisition that could be undertaken subject to 
the limits specified under regulation 17J: 
(j) issuance of units to the employee benefit trust as specified in clause (a) 
of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 17I; 
(k) transfer of units to the employee benefit trust as specified in clauses (b) 
and (c) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 17I; 
(l) a separate resolution that shall be required for grant of options to 
identified employees, during any one year, equal to or exceeding one 
per cent of the unit capital of the InvIT at the time of grant of options; 
(m) variation of the terms of the unit based employee benefit scheme 
including repricing of the options;] 
approval from unit holders shall be required where votes cast in favour of the 
resolution shall 353[be at least sixty per cent of total votes cast for the resolution.] 
354[***]  
355[(5A) In case of any borrowing by an InvIT in terms of the limit specified in clause (b) 
of sub-regulation 3 of regulation 20, the approval from seventy five per cent. of the unit 
holders by value shall be obtained.  
 356[***]] 
                                                           
353 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 27.09.2024.  Prior to the substitution, the words were “not be less than one and a half times 
the votes cast against the resolution:”. 
354 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f 16.06.2020. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as follows:  
“Provided that in case of clause (d), if approval is not obtained , the person shall provide an exit option to the unit 
holder to the extend and in the manner specified by the Board.” 
355 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019 
356 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 01.01.2023. Prior to omission, it read as: 
“(5B) For delisting of units of InvIT in terms of clause (ea) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 17, approval from 
not less than ninety per cent. of the unit holders by value shall be required and exit shall be provided to dissenting 
unitholders.”

[Page 105]
105 
 
357[(5C) No person, other than sponsor(s), its related parties and its associates, shall acquire 
units of an InvIT which taken together with units held by such person and by persons acting 
in concert with such person in such InvIT, exceeds twenty -five per cen t of the value of 
outstanding InvIT units unless approval from seventy five per cent. of the unit holders by 
value excluding the value of units held by parties related to the transaction, is obtained:  
 
Provided that if the required approval is not received, the person acquiring the units shall 
provide an exit option to the dissenting unit holders to the extent and in the manner as 
may be specified by the Board.] 
 
(6) With respect to the right(s) of the unit holders under clauses (f) of sub -
regulation (5),– 
(a) not less than twenty five per cent. of the  unit holders by value, other 
than any party related to the transactions and its associates, shall apply, 
in writing, to the trustee for the purpose; 
(b) on receipt of such application, the trustee shall require the issue with the 
investment manager to place t he issue for voting in the manner as 
specified in these regulations; 
(c) with respect to sub -clause (vi), not less than sixty per cent. of the unit 
holders by value shall apply, in writing, to the trustee for the purpose. 
 
358[(7)  In case of any change in sponsor or inducted sponsor or change in control of 
sponsor or inducted sponsor  359[or conversion to Self -Sponsored Investment 
Manager], - 
                                                           
357 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f 16.06.2020. 
358 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f 16.06.2020. 
359 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment ) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023.

[Page 106]
106 
 
(a) prior to such change, approval from seventy five per cent. of the unit 
holders by value excluding the value of unit s held by parties related to 
the transaction shall be obtained 
(b)  if the required approval is not received,- 
(i) in case of change of sponsor or inducted sponsor, the proposed 
inducted sponsor shall provide the dissenting unit holders an option 
to exit by buying their units in the manner specified by the Board;  
(ii) in case of change in control of the sponsor or inducted sponsor, the 
said sponsor or inducted sponsor shall provide the dissenting unit 
holders an option to exit by buying their units in the manner specified 
by the Board;  
360[(iii) in case of conversion to Self -Sponsored Investment Manager, 
the Investment Manager shall provide the dissenting unit holders an 
option to exit  by buying their units in the manner specified by the 
Board;] 
Explanation: Change in sponsor or inducted sponsor shall mean any change 
due to entry of a new sponsor 361[or] exit of an existing sponsor.] 
 
362[(8) The existing sponsor(s) proposing to disassociate as sponsor(s) by seeking to 
convert the Investment Manager to Self -Sponsored Investment Manager shall 
comply with the following conditions: 
(i) the InvIT has been listed for a period of at least five years; 
(ii) the InvIT has undertaken not less than twelve distributions on a continuous 
basis and has complied with the distribution norms as per these Regulations 
in the preceding five years; 
(iii)the InvIT is rated AAA by a registered credit rating agency for a continuous 
period of five years immediately preceding the exit of the sponsor; 
                                                           
360 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. 
361 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastruc ture Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 27.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, the words were “with or without”. 
362 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023.

[Page 107]
107 
 
(iv) during the period of preceding five years, the InvIT has not breached, at any 
time, the maximum leverage thresholds specified in these regulations; 
(v) the Investment Manager is meeting the net worth criteria specified for the 
sponsor in these regulations; 
(vi) the minimum unitholding requirement applicable to sponsor(s) and sponsor 
group(s) shall be com plied with, on or after the date of conversion of the 
Investment Manager to Self -Sponsored Investment Manager, by the 
Investment Manager, shareholders of the Investment Manager and/or group 
entities of Investment Manager; 
 
Explanation: Investment Manager, shareholders of the Investment Manager 
and/or group entities of Investment Manager may acquire units of the InvIT 
for the purpose of compliance of above condition. 
(vii) the sponsor(s) or its associate(s) do not own or control the Investment 
Manager of the InvIT  on or after the date of conversion of the Investment 
Manager to Self- Sponsored Investment Manager; 
(viii) the sponsor has not transferred / sold assets to the InvIT in the last three 
years and no assets/ projects shall be acquired by the InvIT from the 
outgoing sponsor(s) for a period of one year from the date of conversion 
to Self-Sponsored Investment Manager; 
(ix) at least one of the sponsor(s) proposing to disassociate should have been a 
sponsor of the InvIT for a minimum period of five years; 
(x) the InvIT shall not have any under -construction assets acquired from the 
sponsor that have not commenced commercial operations; 
(xi) the sponsor(s) or its associate(s) are not the Project Manager and do not own 
or control the Project Manager on or after the date of conversion of t he 
Investment Manager to Self-Sponsored Investment Manager; 
(xii) unitholders approval in terms of sub -regulation (7) of this regulation and 
consent of the Trustee has been obtained for conversion to Self -Sponsored 
Investment Manager;

[Page 108]
108 
 
363[(xiia) there are no outstanding subordinate units; and] 
(xiii) such other conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
364[Dispute Resolution. 
22A. (1) All claims, differences or disputes between investors and the investment manager arising 
out of or in relation to the activities of  the investment manager in the securities market 
shall be submitted to a resolution mechanism that includes mediation and/or conciliation 
and/or arbitration, in accordance with the procedure specified by the Board. 
(2) No loss or damage or expenses incurre d by the investment manager or officers of the 
investment manager, including those in relation to resolution of claims or disputes of 
investors, shall be met out of the trust property.] 
 
Disclosures 
23. (1) A privately placed InvIT shall ensure that the disclosures in the placement 
memorandum are in accordance with the sub-regulation (4) of regulation 15 and 
any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board in this regard. 
(2) A publicly offered InvIT shall ensure that the disclosures in the offer document 
are in accordance with the Schedule III and any circulars or  guidelines issued 
by the Board in this regard. 
(3) The investment manager of all InvITs shall submit an annual report to all unit 
holders electronically or by physical copies and to the designated stock 
exchanges within three months from the end of the financial year. 
                                                           
363 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 27.05.2024. 
364 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 04-07-2023.

[Page 109]
109 
 
(4) The investment manager of 365[publicly offered InvIT]  shall submit a half -
yearly report to the designated stock exchange 366[along with the quarterly 
financial results for the quarter ending September 30th.] 
367[***] 
368[(4A) The investment manager of an InvIT shall submit a quarterly report to 
the designated stock exchange(s) along with the quarterly financial statements 
for the quarters ending June, September and December if the consolidated 
borrowings and deferred payments of such InvIT, in terms of regulation 20, is 
above forty nine per cent.] 
(5) 369[Annual/ half yearly /quarterly reports shall contain disclosures as specified 
under Part-A, Part-B and Part-C, respectively, of Schedule IV.] 
(6) The investment manager shall disclose to the designated stock exchanges any 
information having bearing on the operation or performance of the InvIT as 
well as price sensitive information which includes but is not restricted to the 
following,– 
(a) acquisition or di sposal of any projects, directly or through 370[ holdco 
or] SPV, value of which exceeds five per cent. of value of the InvIT 
assets; 
(b) additional borrowing, at level of 371[holdco or ] SPV or the InvIT, 
exceeding fifteen per cent. of the value of the InvIT assets ; 
                                                           
365 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
366 Substituted for the words “within forty five days from the end of half year ending September 30th:” by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 
03.09.2025.  
367 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infr astructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. Prior to omission, it read as “Provided that for any InvIT, whose units are listed 
and whose consolidated borrowings and deferred payments, in terms of regulation 20, is a bove forty nine per cent., 
such InvIT shall also submit a quarterly report to the designated stock exchange within thirty days from the end of 
every quarter ending June and December. ” It was i nserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019  
368 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
369 Substituted ibid. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (5) read as follows: 
“Such annual and half yearly reports shall contain disclosures as specified under Schedule IV.”  
370 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
371 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 110]
110 
 
(c) additional issue of units by the InvIT; 
(d) details of any credit rating obtained by the InvIT and any change in such 
rating; 
(e) any issue which requires approval of the unit holders; 
(f) any legal proceedings which may have significant bearing on the 
functioning of the InvIT; 
(g) notices and results of meetings of unit holders,  
(h) any instance of non -compliance with these regulations including any 
breach of limits specified under the regulations; 
(i) any material issue that in the opinion of the investment manager or 
trustee needs to be disclosed to the unit holders. 
(7) The InvIT shall also submit such information to the designated stock exchanges 
and unit holders on a periodical basis as may be required under the listing 
agreement. 
(8) The InvIT shall disclose to the designated stock exchanges, unit holders and the 
Board such information and in the manner as may be specified by the Board. 
(9) The InvIT shall also provide disclosures or reports specific to sector or sub -
sector in which the InvIT has invested or proposes to invest in the manner as 
may be specified by the Board. 
372[(10)  The investment manager shall disclose the unitholding p attern for ordinary 
units and subordinate units separately in such manner as may be specified by 
the Board.] 
 
Submission of reports to the Board  
24. The Board may at any time call upon the InvIT or parties to the InvIT to file such reports, 
as the Board may desire, with respect to the activities relating to the InvIT. 
 
Power to call for information  
                                                           
372 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 27.05.2024.

[Page 111]
111 
 
25. (1) The Board may at any time call for any information from the InvIT or 373[holdco or 
SPV(s)] parties to the InvIT or 374[holdco or SPV(s)] any unit holder or any other 
person with respect to any matter relating to activity of the InvIT. 
(2) Where any information is called for under sub -regulation (1), it shall be furnished 
within the time specified by the Board. 
 
Maintenance of records  
26. (1) The investment manager shall  maintain records pertaining to the activity of the 
InvIT, wherever applicable, including,– 
(a) all investments or divestments of the InvIT and documents supporting 
the same including rationale for such investments or divestments; 
(b) agreements entered into by the InvIT or on behalf of the InvIT; 
(c) documents relating to appointment of persons as specified in sub -
regulation (5) of regulation 10; 
(d) insurance policies for infrastructure assets; 
(e) investment management agreement; 
(f) documents pertaining to issue and listing of units including placement 
memorandum, draft and final offer document, in -principle approval by 
designated stock exchanges, listing agreement with the designated stock 
exchanges, details of subscriptions, allotment of units, etc; 
(g) distributions declared and made to the unit holders; 
(h) disclosures and periodical reporting made to the trustee, Board, unit 
holders and the designated stock exchanges including annual reports, 
half yearly reports, etc.; 
(i) valuation reports including methodology of valuation; 
(j) books of accounts and financial statements; 
(k) audit reports; 
                                                           
373 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
374 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 112]
112 
 
(l) reports relating to activities of the InvIT placed before the board of 
directors of the investment manager; 
(m) unit holders' grievances and actions taken thereon including copies of 
correspondences made with the unit holder and the Board, if any; 
(n) any other material documents; 
(2) The trustee shall maintain records, wherever applicable, pertaining to,– 
(a) certificate of registration granted by the Board; 
(b) registered trust deed; 
(c) documents pertaining to application made  to the Board for registration 
as an InvIT; 
(d) titles of the infrastructure assets: 
Provided that where the original title documents are deposited with the 
lender or any other person in respect of any loan or debt, the trustee shall 
maintain copies of such title documents; 
(e) notices and agenda send to unit holders for meetings held; 
(f) minutes of meetings and resolutions passed therein; 
(g) periodical reports and disclosures received by the trustee from the 
investment manager; 
(h) disclosures, periodically or otherwise, ma de to the Board, unit holders 
and the designated stock exchanges; 
(i) any other material documents. 
(3) The aforesaid records may be maintained in physical or electronic form: 
Provided that where records are required to be duly signed and are maintained in 
the electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed.  
(4) 375[The investment manager and the trustee shall ensure that adequate backup systems, 
data storage capacity, system  capacity for secure handling, data transfer and 
arrangements for alternative means of communication in case of internet link 
failure, are maintained for the records maintained electronically.  
                                                           
375 Inserted vide  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 27.09.2024.

[Page 113]
113 
 
(5) The investment manager and trustee shall ensure that a business continuity plan and 
disaster recovery site is in place for the records maintained electronically, to 
maintain data and transaction integrity.] 
 
376[CHAPTER VIA 
FRAMEWORK FOR PRIVATE PLACEMENT OF UNITS OF INVITS WHICH 
ARE NOT LISTED 
 
26A. Applicability 
(1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to an InvIT, which 377[***] has issued units, 
on a private placement basis in terms of these regulations.  
378[***]  
(3) All the provisions of these regulations applicable to an InvIT, whose units are privately 
placed and listed or proposed to be listed, shall be applicable to an InvIT 379[***]who has 
issued units under the provisions of this chapter, except for the following -  
(a) sub-regulation (4), (9),(10) and (22) of regulation 10; 
(b) sub-regulation (1A) and (2) of regulation 14;  
(c) regulation 16; 
(d) regulation 17; 
(e) regulation 20; 
(f) sub-regulation (6) of regulation 21; 
(g) sub-clause (iv) of clause (f) of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 22; 
(h) regulation 23; 
                                                           
376 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019 
377 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 01.01.2023. Prior to omission, the words were “proposes to issue units or”. 
378 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 01.01.2023. Prior to omission, it read as:  
“(2) The units so issued or proposed to be issued shall not be eligible to be listed on recognised stock exchanges.” 
379 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 01.01.2023. Prior to omission, the words and symbols were “issuing units/”.

[Page 114]
114 
 
(i) sub-regulation (15) of regulation 9 in respect of obtaining prior approval of 
the Board for any change in the investment manager;  
(j) sub-regulation (17) of regulation 9 in respect of obtaining prior approval of 
the Board in case of change in control of the investment manager.  
 
26B. Raising of funds and investments 
380[***] 
(2) An InvIT may undertake borrowing to the extent permitted under the trust deed, after 
seeking approval from such number of investors as specified in the trust deed. 
381[(3) The minimum number of unit holders in an InvIT, other than the sponsor(s), its 
related parties and its associates, shall be five, together and collectively holding at least 
twenty-five per cent of the total units of the InvIT, at all times. 
Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-regulation, a unit holder along with its associates 
and related parties, shall be considered as a single unit holder.] 
 
26C. Disclosures 
382[***] 
                                                           
380 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 01.01.2023. Prior to omission, it read as:  
“(1) An InvIT raising funds by way of a private placement in terms of the provisions of this Chapter – 
(a) shall do it through a placement memorandum; 
(b) shall raise funds only from institutional investors and body corporates, whether India n or foreign: 
Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be subject to guidelines as may be specified 
by the Reserve Bank of India and the Government from time to time; 
(c) shall not accept from an investor, an investment of value less than rupees one crore; 
(d) shall not raise funds from more than twenty investors; 
(e) shall file a placement memorandum with the Board alongwith the fee as specified in Schedule II, atleast 5 
days prior to opening of the issue; 
(f) shall file the final placement memorandum with the Board within a period of ten working days from the date 
of allotment of the units to the investors; 
(g) invest not less than eighty per cent of the value of the InvIT assets in eligible infrastructure projects either 
directly or through holdcos or through SPVs: 
Provided that un-invested funds may be invested in instruments as provided under sub -clause (ii), (iii), (iv) 
and (v) of clause (b) of sub-regulation 5 of Regulation 18.” 
381 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 30.07.2021 
382 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 01.01.2023. Prior to omission, it read as:

[Page 115]
115 
 
(2) The investment manager of the InvIT shall submit annual report, half-yearly report and 
valuation report to the trustee and unit holders of the InvIT, either electronically or through 
physical copies.  
(3) The annual and half yearly reports shall contain disclosures as specified under Schedule 
IV, to the extent applicable. 
(4) The investment mana ger shall disclose to the trustee and unitholders any information 
having bearing on the operation or performance of the InvIT which includes but is not 
restricted to the following– 
(a) acquisition or disposal of any projects, directly or through holdco or SPV, 
value of which exceeds five per cent. of value of the InvIT assets; 
(b) additional issue of units by the InvIT; 
(c) details of any credit rating obtained by the InvIT and any change in such 
rating; 
(d) any issue which requires approval of the unit holders; 
(e) any legal proceedings which may have significant bearing on the 
functioning of the InvIT; 
(f) notices and results of meetings of unit holders,  
(g) any instance of non-compliance with these regulations including any breach 
of limits specified under the regulations; 
(h) any material issue that in the opinion of the investment manager or trustee 
needs to be disclosed to the unit holders. 
 
 
26D. General   
383[***] 
                                                           
“(1) An InvIT issuing units as per the provisions of this Chapter shall ensure that the disclosures in the placement 
memorandum are in accordance with sub-regulation (4) of regulation 15 and any circular or guideline issued by 
the Board in this regard.” 
383 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 01.01.2023. Prior to omission, it read as: 
“(1) The investment manager shall be responsible for all activities pertaining to the issue of units including filing 
of placement memorandum with the Board and dealing with all matters relating to the allotment of units to the 
unit holders.

[Page 116]
116 
 
 
(3) The investment manager shall ensure that the investments made by the InvIT are in  
accordance with the investment conditions as specified in this Chapter and in accordance 
with the investment strategy of the InvIT. 
(4) The investment manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the InvIT is done not 
less than once a year and such report is submitted to the trustee and unitholders, either 
electronically or through physical copies. 
 
26E. Surrender of certificate 
(1) An InvIT which has issued units as per the provisions of this Chapter, may choose to 
surrender its certificate of regis tration to the Board and on acceptance of surrender of 
certificate of registration, it shall no longer undertake the activity of an InvIT. 
(2) The InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall continue to be liable for all their acts of 
omissions and commissions wi th respect to activities of the InvIT notwithstanding 
surrender of registration to the Board. 
 
26F. Listing of units  
384[(1)] An InvIT which has issued units in terms of the provisions of this Chapter, may list 
such units on a recognised stock exchange, subject to it complying with the requirements 
specified for privately placed and listed InvIT under these regulations and in the manner 
specified by the Board from time to time.] 
385[(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, the Board may grant any 
exemptions to the InvITs which have issued units in terms of the provisions of this Chapter, 
from these regulations, for the purpose of facilitating listing the units of such InvITs on a 
recognized stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals.] 
                                                           
(2) The investment manager shall ensure that disclosures made in the placement memorandum contains material, 
true, correct and adequate disclosures and are in accordance with these regulations and guidelines or circulars 
issued by the Board.” 
384 Renumbered as clause (1) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 01.01.2023. 
385 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 01.01.2023.

[Page 117]
117 
 
386[CHAPTER VIB 
OBLIGATIONS OF THE INVESTMENT MANAGERS 
 
Application of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
26G. Subject to other provisions of this Chapter, the provisions contained in sub-regulations 
(2), (4), (5), (9) and (10) of regulation 17 and regulations 18, 19, 20, 21, 26 and sub - 
regulation (1), (2), (2A), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (10) and (11) of reg ulation 25 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 shall be applicable, as in force from time to time, with necessary 
modifications as if the said provisions were the provisions of these regulations.  
 
Explanation - For the purposes of this regulation, unless the context otherwise requires, the 
provisions under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, shall be interpreted as under, –  
(i) the expression “promoters” wherever it occurs, shall be read as “parties to the 
InvIT”; 
(ii) the expression “listed entity” wherever it occurs, shall be read as “InvIT” or 
“investment manager of InvIT”, as may be applicable;  
(iii) the expression “company secretary”  wherever it occurs, shall be read as 
“compliance officer”; 
(iv) the expression “executive director” wherever it occurs, shall be read as “non -
independent director”; 
(v) the expression “non -executive director” wherever it occurs, shall be read as 
“independent direc tor” 387[except for the purpose of regulation 19(1) of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as applicable to the investment manager 
under these regulations]; 
                                                           
386 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 01.04.2023. 
387 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025.

[Page 118]
118 
 
(vi) the expression “Board of Directors of the listed entity” wherever it occurs, shall 
be read as “Board of Directors of investment manager”; 
(vii) the expression “subsidiary of listed entity” wherever it occurs, shall be read as 
“HoldCo and/or SPV of InvIT, as applicable”. 
 
Additional Requirements. 
26H. (1) The Board of Directors of the investment manager shall comprise of not less than 
six directors and have not less than one woman independent director388[:] 
389[Provided that if by a vacancy in the office of a director of the investment manager, the 
investment manager becomes non-compliant with such requirement, such vacancy shall be 
filled by the investment manager as follows - 
A. if such vacancy arises due to expiry of the term of office of the director, then the 
resulting vacancy shall be filled not later than the date such office is vacated; or 
B. if such vacancy arises due to any other reason, then the resulting vacancy shall be filled 
at the earliest and not later than three months from the date of such vacancy.] 
(2) The quorum for every meeting of the Board of Directors of the investment manager shall 
be one-third of its total strength or three directors, whichever is higher, including at least one 
independent director. 
Explanation - The participation of the directors by video conferencing or by other audio -
visual means shall be counted for the purpose of quorum and shall be recorded by the 
investment manager. 
 
(3) The Board of Directors of the investment manager shall review compliance reports every 
quarter pertaining to all laws applicable to the InvIT as well as steps taken to rectify instances 
of non-compliances. 
 
                                                           
388 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendme nt) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025. Prior to the substitution the symbol was “.”. 
389 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025.

[Page 119]
119 
 
(4) The minimum information to be placed before the Board of Directors shall include the 
items specified in Part A of Schedule VII. 
 
 (5) The chief executive officer, the chief financial officer and the compliance officer shall 
provide the compliance certificate, along with the supporting documents, to the Board of 
Directors including the items specified in Part B of Schedule VII. 
 
 (6) The Board of Directors of the investment manager shall set forth clearly the 
recommendation of the investment manager in the notice to the unitholders for each item 
referred to in sub-regulation (5) of regulation 22 of these regulations. 
 
Vigil Mechanism 
26I. (1) The investment manager  shall formulate a vigil mechanism, including a whistle 
blower policy for directors and employees to report genuine concerns.  
(2) The vigil mechanism shall provide for adequate safeguards against victimization of 
director(s) or employee(s) or any other pe rson who avail the mechanism and also provide 
for direct access to the chairperson of the audit committee in appropriate or exceptional 
cases. 
(3) An independent service provider may be engaged by the investment manager for 
providing or operating the vigil mechanism who shall report to the audit committee. 
(4) The audit committee shall review the functioning of the vigil mechanism. 
 
Secretarial Compliance Report 
26J. The investment manager shall submit a secretarial compliance report given by a 
practicing company secretary to the stock exchanges, in such form as specified, within sixty 
days from end of each financial year.  
(2) The secretarial compliance report referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall 
be annexed with the annual report of the InvIT. 
 
Quarterly Compliance Report on Corporate governance

[Page 120]
120 
 
26K. (1) The investment manager shall submit a quarterly compliance report on governance 
in the format as may be specified by the Board , to the recognized stock exchange(s) within 
twenty-one days from the end of each quarter. 
(2) The report referred in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall be signed either by the 
compliance officer or the chief executive officer of the investment manager.] 
390[Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
26L. (1) The Manager shall redress investor grievances promptly but not later than twenty -
one calendar days from the date of receipt of the grievance and in such manner as may be 
specified by the Board. 
(2) The Board may also recognize a body corporate for handling and monitoring the process 
of grievance redressal within such time and in such manner as may be specified.] 
CHAPTER VII 
INSPECTION 
Boards right to inspect  
27. The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more 
persons as inspecting officers to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records and 
documents relating to activity of the InvIT  391[ or holdco or SPV or parties to the InvIT ] 
for any of the following reasons, namely,--  
(a) to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained 
by the InvIT or parties to the InvIT in the manner specified in these regulations;  
(b) to inspect into complaints received from unit holders, clients or any other person, 
on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the InvIT;  
(c) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being 
complied with by the InvIT and parties to the InvIT; and  
                                                           
390 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023. 
391 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 121]
121 
 
(d) to inspect suo motu into the affairs of the InvIT, in the interest of the securities 
market or in the interest of investors. 
 
Notice before inspection  
28. (1)  Before ordering an inspection under regulation 27, the Boa rd shall give not less 
than ten days notice to the trustee of the InvIT.  
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -regulation (1), where the Board is 
satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, 
by an order in writing, direct that the inspection of the affairs of the InvIT be taken 
up without such notice.  
(3)  During the course of an inspection, the InvIT against whom the inspection is being 
carried out and parties to the InvIT shall be bound to discharge their obligations as 
provided in regulation 29.  
 
Obligation of InvIT, parties to the InvIT and any other associate persons on inspection. 
29. (1) It shall be the duty of every InvIT in respect of whom an inspection has been 
ordered under the regulation 27, parties to the InvIT and any other associate person 
who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of 
such InvIT, including representative of InvIT, if any, to produce to the inspecting 
officer such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and 
furnish him with such statements and information as the inspecting officer may 
require for the purposes of inspection.  
(2) It shall be the duty of every InvIT, parties to the InvIT and any other associate 
person who is in possess ion of relevant information pertaining to conduct and 
affairs of the InvIT to give to the inspecting officer all such assistance and to extend 
all such co-operation as may be required in connection with the inspection and to 
furnish such information as may be sought by the inspecting officer in connection 
with the inspection.  
(3) The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine 
on oath and record the statement of any employees and directors of the InvIT

[Page 122]
122 
 
392[***] parties to the InvIT or 393[ or holdco or SPV(s)] any person responsible for 
or connected with the activities of InvIT or any other associated person having 
relevant information pertaining to such InvIT. 
(4) The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have po wer to obtain 
authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of InvIT, from any person 
having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts.  
 
Submission of report to the Board  
30. The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an 
inspection report to the Board: 
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report.  
 
Communication of findings etc. to the InvIT 
31. The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reasonable 
opportunity of hearing to the InvITs or parties to the InvIT or its representatives or any 
such person, issue such directions as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the 
investors in the nature of,– 
(a) requiring the InvIT to delist its units from the stock exchanges and surrender its 
certificate of registration; 
(b) requiring the InvIT to wind up; 
(c) requiring the InvIT to sell its assets; 
(d) requiring the InvIT or parties to the InvIT to take such action as may be  in the 
interest of the investors; 
(e) prohibiting the InvIT or parties to the InvIT from operating in the capital market or 
from accessing the capital market for a specified period.  
 
CHAPTER VIII 
                                                           
392 Omitted “or” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Tr usts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
393 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 123]
123 
 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 
 
Liability for action in case of default.  
32. An InvIT or parties to the InvIT or any other person involved in the activity of the InvIT 
who contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations or notifications, 
guidelines, circulars or instructions issued thereunder by the Board shall be  liable for one 
or more actions specified therein including any action provided under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.  
394[CHAPTER VIII-A 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
32A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any 
of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not 
exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation 395[***] relating to testing new 
products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory 
sandbox in the securities markets. 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub -regulation (1) shall be subject to the 
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specifi ed by the Board including 
conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live 
testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may 
be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for 
furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be 
specified by the Board.]  
 
CHAPTER IX 
MISCELLANEOUS 
                                                           
394 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulation, w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 
395 The words “in technological aspects” omitted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 
w.e.f. 3-8-2021.

[Page 124]
124 
 
 
Power of the Board to issue clarifications.  
33. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, 
the Board may issue clarifications or guidelines in the manner as may be appropriate. 
396[Power to relax strict enforcement of Regulations 
33A.The Board may, in the interest of investo rs or for the development of the securities market, 
relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied that,- 
(a) requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or 
(b) the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or 
(c) the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry or class of 
listed entities; or 
(d) the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer; 
or 
any provision of Act(s), Rule(s), regulation(s) under which the  listed entity is established or is 
governed by, is required to be given precedence to.] 
Other InvITs.  
34. The Board may lay down framework for InvITs other than the InvITs falling in the 
categories specified in these regulations. 
  
                                                           
396 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulat ions, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 125]
125 
 
SCHEDULE I 
FORM A 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 
[See regulation 3] 
Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration as Infrastructure investment trust 
 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1. This form is meant for use by the applicant  for grant of certificate of registration as a 
Infrastructure Investment Trust. 
2. The applicant should complete this form, and submit it, along with all supporting documents 
to the Board. 
3. This application form should be filled in accordance with these regulations. 
4. The application shall be considered by the Board provided it is complete in all respects. 
5. All answers must be legible and all the pages must be numbered with signature/ stamp on each 
page of the form. 
6. Information which needs to be supplied in more detail may be given on separate sheets which 
should be attached to the application form and appropriately numbered. 
7. The application must be signed and all signatures must be original. 
8. The application must be accompanied by an application fee as specified in the Second Schedule 
to these regulations. 
 
1. GENERAL INFORMATION 
(a) Name, address, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the InvIT

[Page 126]
126 
 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 
(c) Whether the 397[ 398[trust]/ sponsor(s)/ investment manager/ project manager(s) or their 
associates 399[or sponsor group(s)] or trustee] are registered with SEBI, RBI or any other 
regulatory authority in any capacity along with the details of its registration  
(d) Details of infrastructure for conducting activities as an Infrastructure investment trust 
 
2. 400[DETAILS OF TRUST] 
(a) Write-up on the activities of the 401[trust]  
(b) Whether the Trust Deed is registered under the provisions of the Indian Registration 
Act, 1908 
(c) Whether the Trust Deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of InvIT and 
includes responsibilities of the Trustee in accordance with Regulation 9 (Enclose 
relevant extract of the Registered Trust Deed) 
(d) Whether any unit holder of the InvIT enjoys preferential voting or any other rights over 
another unit holder 
(e) Whether there are multiple classes of units of InvIT 
 
3. DETAILS OF TRUSTEE  
(a) Name, address of registered office, address for correspondence and principal place of 
business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the Trustee 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s). 
(c) Brief write up on the activities of the trustee  
(d) Details of registration as a Debenture Trustee 
                                                           
397 Substituted for “applicant or its associates or its sponsor(s)/trustee/ manager is/” by Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016  
398 Substituted for the word “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
399 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second A mendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. 
400 Substituted ibid for the words “DETAILS OF APPLICANT”. 
401 Substituted ibid for the word “applicant”.

[Page 127]
127 
 
(e) 402[***] 
(f) Details of infrastructure, personnel, etc. relevant to the activity as trustee of the InvIT 
(g) Identity and Address proof of the trustee and its directors  
(h) Whether the Trustee Company is registered with any regulatory authority other than 
SEBI in any capacity along with the details of its registration 
403[(i) Copy of the executed trust deed] 
 
4. DETAILS OF SPONSOR(S) (Provide details for every sponsor separately) 
(a) Name, address of registered office, address for correspondence and principal place of 
business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the sponsor(s) 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 
(c) Legal status of the sponsor, date and place of incorporation/ establishment, wherever 
applicable 
(d) Details of the holding pattern and profile of the directors/partners including thei r 
professional qualification 
(e) Identity proof and address proof of the Sponsor, its directors or partners 
(f) Write up on the activities of the sponsor/its associates including past experience in 
development of infrastructure or fund management in the infrastructure sector 
(g) Whether the Sponsor has floated any InvITs previously, which are registered with SEBI. 
If yes, details of the same 
(h) Proposed holding of the sponsor in the InvIT on post-issue basis 
(i) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year 
(j) Net-worth certificate of sponsor(s) by a Chartered Accountant, not more than six months 
old from the date of application 
                                                           
402 Omitted “List of associates of the trustee ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
403 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 128]
128 
 
 
5. DETAILS OF INVESTMENT MANAGER  
(a) Name, address of the registered office address for correspondence, telephone number(s), 
fax number(s), of the Investment Manager 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s). 
(c) Legal status, date and place of incorporation/ establishment, wherever applicable 
(d) Copy of 404[executed] Investment Management agreement  
(e) Write up on the activities of the Investment Manager including past experience in fund 
management/ advisory services or development in the infrastructure sector 
(f) List of Directors/ Members of Governing Board 
(g) Identity proof and address proof of the Investment Manager, its directors or partners 
(h) Shareholding/partnership interests and profile of the directors /partners  
(i) Details of the key personnel including experience and professional qualification 
(j) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year 
(k) Net-worth certificate of manager by a Chartered Accountant, not more than six months 
old from the date of application 
(l) Whether the Investment Manager has acted as manager to any InvIT previously, which 
are registered with SEBI. If yes, details of the same 
 
6. DETAILS OF PROJECT MANAGER(s) (Provide details for every project manager 
separately) 
(a) Name, address of the registered office address for correspondence, telephone number(s), 
fax number(s), of the Project Manager 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 
                                                           
404 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 129]
129 
 
(c) Legal status, date and place of incorporation/ establishment, wherever applicable 
(d) 405[***] 
(e) Write up on the activities of the Project Manager 
(f) Identity proof and address proof of the 406[Project Manager], its directors or partners 
 
7. DETAILS OF BUSINESS PLAN AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY 
(a) Investment objective and investment style 
(b) Details of proposed initial offer 407[***] 
(c) Brief details of the assets proposed to be held under InvIT  
(d) Details of leverage at 408[holdco/SPV(s)] and InvIT level (current and proposed) 
(e) Fee structure  
 
8. DETAILS OF REGULATORY ACTION TAKEN IN THE PAST, IF ANY 
(a) Whether the 409[InvIT or parties to the InvIT or their directors/members of governing 
board] are / were involved in any litigation connected with the securities market whi ch 
may have an adverse bearing on the business of the 410[InvIT] or any order has/ had been 
passed against them for violation of securities laws. (If Yes, provide details. If No, 
enclose a declaration to that effect). 
                                                           
405 Omitted “Copy of Project Implementation Agreement” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
406 Substituted for the words “Investment Manager” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
407 Omitted “ including copy of the draft initial offer document/draft placement memorandum, as applicable ” by 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 
30.11.2016 
408 Substituted for “SPV” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
409 Substituted for “applicant or any of its related party(ies)” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
410 Substituted for the word “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 130]
130 
 
(b) Whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory 
authority against the 411[InvIT or parties to the InvIT or their directors/members of 
governing board] under any Act or the Regulations/guidelines made thereunder (If Yes, 
provide details. If No, enclose a declaration to that effect). 
(c) Whether 412[InvIT or parties to the InvIT or their directors/members of governing board] 
has/ have been refused a certificate by the Board or its/ their certificate has been 
suspended at any time prior to this application. (If Yes, provide details. If No, enclose a 
declaration to that effect). 
 
9. OTHER INFORMATION/DECLARATIONS 
Declaration that the 413[InvIT and parties to the InvIT] are fit and proper persons based 
on the criteria specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008. 
 
DECLARATION STATEMENT (To Be Given As Below) 
We hereby agree and declare that the information supplied in the application, including the 
attachment sheets, is complete and true. 
AND we further agree that, we shall notify the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
immediately any change in the information provided in the application. 
We further agree that we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992, and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 and any other regulations, circulars or guidelines as may 
be notified or issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 
                                                           
411 Substituted for “applicant or any of its related party(ies)” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
412 Substituted for “applicant or any of its related party(ies)” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
413 Substituted for the words “applicant, Sponsor(s), Investment Manager and Project Manager(s)” by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 131]
131 
 
We further agree that as a condition of registration, we shall abide by such operational 
instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities  and Exchange Board of India from 
time to time. 
For and on behalf of____________________________________________________ 
(Name of the applicant) 
 
Authorized signatory 
(Signature)

[Page 132]
132 
 
FORM B 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 
[See regulation 6(2)] 
Certificate of registration as a Infrastructure Investment Trust 
 
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), read with the regulations made there under, the 
Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to  
_______________________________________________________________  
as an Infrastructure Investment Trust  subject to the conditions specified in the Act and in the 
regulations made thereunder.  
 
II. The Registration Number of the Infrastructure Investment Trust is: 
_____________.  
 
Date :  
Place :  
 
By Order  
Sd/-  
For and on behalf of  
Securities and Exchange Board of India

[Page 133]
133 
 
SCHEDULE II 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 
 [See regulation 3(2), 6(1) and 14(4)(k)]  
 
FEES 
1. Every applicant shall pay non -refundable application fees of one lakh rupees along 
with the application for grant of certificate of registration. 
 
2. Every applicant shall pay as non-refundable registration fees a sum of ten lakh rupees 
within fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board. 
 
3. With respect to publicly offered InvIT: 
 
a. The InvIT shall pay non-refundable filing fees of: 
i. 0.1% in case of initial and follow-on offer; and  
ii. 0.05% in case of rights issue  
 
of the total issue size including intended retention of oversubscription at the 
time of filing of draft Offer document with the Board  
 
b. If the issue size estimated by the InvIT differs from eventual issue size and 
thereby:– 
i. the fees paid by the InvIT is found to be deficient, the balance fee shall 
be paid by the issuer 414[ alongwith the filing of the final offer 
document/ final placement memorandum with the Board and] with the 
                                                           
414 Substituted for “within seven days of registering the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies or filing the letter 
of offer” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Ame ndment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 134]
134 
 
recognised stock exchanges, as the case may be; and 
ii. if any excess fee is found to have been paid, it shall be refunded by the 
Board to the InvIT. 
 
4. 415[With respect to privately placed InvIT, the InvIT shall pay non -refundable filing 
fees of: 
i. 0.1% in case of initial offer; and 
ii. 0.05% in case of rights issue, 
of the total issue size including green shoe option, if any, at the time of filing of draft 
placement memorandum or letter of offer, as applicable, with the Board;] 
 
5. Such application, registration and filing fees shall be paid by the applicant or InvIT 
416[by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other 
mode allowed by RBI or] by a demand draft in favor of 'Securities and Exchange Board 
of India' payable at Mumbai or at respective regional or local office, as may be 
required.  
                                                           
415 Substituted for “With respect to privately placed InvIT, the InvIT shall pay non -refundable filing fees of 0.1% of 
the total issue size including green shoe option, if any, at the time of filing of placement memorandum with the Board;” 
by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f 
4.05.2022 
416 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment)  
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 6.3.2017.

[Page 135]
135 
 
SCHEDULE III 
[See regulations 14, 15, 19, 21 and 23] 
MANDATORY DISCLOSURES IN OFFER DOCUMENT  417[or PLACEMENT 
MEMORANDUM] or FOLLOW ON OFFER DOCUMENT 
1. Introduction 
a. Name, registered office address, correspondence address, contact person (s), 
contact details and email id of the InvIT 
b. Place and date of creation of the InvIT 
c. Registration number and date of registeration of the InvIT with the Board  
2. Details of sponsor(s), Inve stment Manager, Project Manager, Trustee and other 
parties 
a. Sponsor (s)  
(In case of multiple sponsors, provide details for every sponsor) 
i. Name, registered office address, correspondence addresses, Contact person 
(s), contact details, email id 
ii. Background of the sponsor including activities being undertaken by the 
sponsor with respect to infrastructure. 
iii. Holding or proposed holding by sponsor in the InvIT 
b. Investment Manager and Project Manager 
i. Background of the investment or Project Manager including past 
experience in management or advisory services or development in 
infrastructure sector 
ii. Brief functions, duties and responsibilities of the investment or Project 
Manager 
                                                           
417 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 136]
136 
 
iii. Brief profiles of directors of the Investment Manager and units held or 
proposed to held by them in the InvIT, if any 
c. Trustee 
i. Background of the Trustee including details of registration with the Board 
in case Trustee is a debenture Trustee 
ii. Names and profiles of the Directors  
iii. Functions, duties and responsibilities of the Trustee 
 
d. Other parties 
Names, details and functions of other key parties or entities involved in the 
structure of the InvIT including key terms of agreement with such parties, 
background and experience, brief functions, duties and responsibilities, Policy of 
appointment and removal, etc 
 
3. Brief background of the InvIT 
a. Glossary of terms or abbreviations 
b. Structure and description of the InvIT 
c. Details of any arrangements pertaining to underlying InvIT assets, entered into 
with various parties prior to the issue 
d. Holding structure of the InvIT prior to the issue including breakup of the units held 
by parties to the InvIT and any other unit holder holding greater than five per cent. 
of the units of the InvIT; 
e. Proposed holding structure by the aforesaid parties post-issue 
f. Fee and expenses charged or chargeable to the InvIT by various parties including 
fees charged or proposed to be charged by the Investment Manager, valuer, 
auditor, Trustees and any other third party and shall also include any set-up costs 
g. Details of any Credit rating(s) obtained, if any

[Page 137]
137 
 
 
4. Terms of the issue 
a. Terms of the offer including number of units, price, issue opening date, issue 
closing date, terms and conditions and any other information as may be required 
for the investor to make an informed decision 
b. Policy of distributions to the unit holders including method of calculation and the 
frequency for distribution 
c. Listing of units 
i. Names of designated stock exchanges 
ii. Timelines for listing 
iii. Declaration that prior in -principle approval has been obtained from the 
designated stock exchanges 
d. Commitment received from strategic investors, if any 
5. Market overview  
a. General market overview of the infrastructure sector 
b. Overview of the sub-sector in which the InvIT has invested or proposes to invest. 
6. Description of the assets under the InvIT 
a. General consolidated details of all assets of the InvIT 
i. Breakup or proposed breakup of InvIT assets in terms of Reg 18(5)(a) and 
(b) 
ii. Details of proposed structure of investment by the InvIT in infrastructure 
projects 
iii. Details of the 418[holdco or the SPV(s)] through which the projects are held 
or proposed to be held including capital structure, holding pattern, holding 
                                                           
418 Substituted for “SPV” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 138]
138 
 
of InvIT in the 419[holdco or the SPV(s)], rights of InvIT in the 420 [holdco 
or the SPV(s) ], etc. pre -issue (current) and post -issue(proposed). Also, 
details of key terms of debt and other instruments in the 421[holdco or the 
SPV(s)] shall be disclosed.  
iv. In case the projects are held or proposed to be held directly by the InvIT, 
details of holding of all the owners of the projects including per  cent. of 
ownership, rights of InvIT vis -à-vis other owners, etc. pre -issue (current) 
and post-issue(proposed) 
v. Status of lender's consent with respect to underlying projects and 
amendment in lender agreement, if any pursuant to acquisition of the assets 
by InvIT 
vi. Confirmation of adequate Insurance of all the infrastructure assets by the 
Trustee 
 
b. Project-wise details of infrastructure assets held or proposed to be held by the 
InvIT 
i. Name, location, pictures and other details of the project. 
ii. Structure of ownership of the project by the InvIT 
iii. Special features of the infrastructure projects, if any  
iv. Description of key agreements and restrictions relevant to the project such 
as terms of concession agreement, power purchase agreements, etc. 
v. Life of the asset (both contractually and physical life requiring 
maintenance, replacement) and right available to extend this life 
vi. Summary of Land diligence  
vii. Technical reports specific to the sub-sector such as traffic data report, wind 
or solar report, etc. 
                                                           
419 Substituted for “SPV” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
420 Substituted for “SPV” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
421 Substituted for “SPV” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 139]
139 
 
viii. Month-wise revenue 422[from the date of the latest financial statements 
included in the offer document or placement memorandum until the 
completed month before filing of the Draft offer document/offer document 
or Placement Memorandum]  
c. For under-construction projects, the following additional disclosures shall be made 
project-wise: 
i. Stage of construction along with per cent. of completed construction as at 
the end of the year 
ii. Progress of development 
iii. Expected completion  
iv. Status of approval or assessment from various authorities in cluding 
statutory assessment & environment considerations  
v. Key risks involved in delay 
 
7. Business Details and Strategy 
a. Investment strategy 
 Description of investment strategy of the InvIT  
 Description of ROFR, if any, by the sponsor, with respect to any futu re assets 
including valuation methodology for future acquisitions from Sponsors in such 
cases 
 Capital and risk management strategy 
b. Use of proceeds 
 purpose of the issue 
 Issue Expenses 
 
8. Leverage 
                                                           
422 Substituted for “ since COD of the project till date ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 140]
140 
 
a. Capital structure of the InvIT assets including any borrowings or deferred 
payments with respect to the InvIT assets prior to the issue and post -issue 
(Standalone and consolidated) 
b. Borrowing policy  
 
9. Related party transactions 
a. Procedure for dealing with related party transactions 
b. Details of any related party transactions 423[ which are undertaken in the last three 
financial years and current financial year ] as well as any such transactions 
proposed in the future 
 
10. Valuation 
a. Summary of valuation as per the latest full valuation report 
b. Valuation methodology  
c. Frequency of valuation and declaration of NAV 
11. Financials 
a. Operating cash flow from the projects (project-wise) under the InvIT for the 
previous 3 years 
b. Summary of the financial statements of the InvIT, Investment Manager and 
sponsor for the previous 3 years, as applicable  
c. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of factors by directors of the Investment 
Manager affecting financial condition and results of operations 
d. Projections of revenue and operating cash flows by InvIT, project-wise over next 
three years including assumptions details as certified by the auditor 
e. Details on payment history and working capital 
                                                           
423 Substituted for “undertaken prior to the offer” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 141]
141 
 
f. Contingent liabilities 424[ as on the date of the latest financial information disclosed 
in the offer document/ placement memorandum] 
 
12. Rights of Unit Holders  
a. Rights of unit holders  
b. Proposed disclosures to the unit holders either directly or by public dissemination 
on the designated stock exchange website 
c. Frequency and manner of meetings of unit holders 
 
13. Title and approval disclosures, litigations and regulatory actions  
a. Title disclosure of the projects including any material litigations pertaining to the 
projects 
b. Regulatory authorities involved and status of approvals with respect to the 
underlying projects and approvals periodically required for the project as per any 
Act or rules or regulations or guidelines by the government or regulatory authority 
c. Brief description of the material litigations and regulatory actions, 425[ which are 
pending, against the InvIT, sponsor(s), Investment Manager, Project 
Manager(s),or any of their associates 426[, sponsor group(s)] and the trustee], if any 
427[***] 
 
14. Risk factors 
                                                           
424 Substituted for “as on date” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
425 Substituted for “whether completed or pending, against the InvIT, sponsor(s), Investment Manager, Trustee, or any 
of their associates” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
426 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. 
427 The words “in the last 5 years” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructu re Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 142]
142 
 
 
15. Brief details on taxation and regulatory aspects to enable the investors to make an 
informed decision 
16. Other general information 
Policy of appointment of auditor and auditing standards to be followed 
 
17. Sector specific information 
Any information pertaining to the sector or sub-sector that may be relevant for an investor 
to invest in units of the InvIT 
 
18. Supporting Documents 
a. Full Valuation Report 
b. Auditors Report 
c. Any other such report 
 
19. Such other information as is material and appropriate to enable the investors to 
make an informed decision 
 
20. Declarations 428[(to be signed by the board of directors of the investment manager 
and sponsor)] 
                                                           
428 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 143]
143 
 
429[The documents to be provided to the Board,-  
a) Full valuation report, alongwith offer document/placement memorandum 
b) Project implementation/management agreement, alongwith draft offer 
document or the placement memorandum 
c) Due diligence certificate alongwith draft offer document and offer 
document/placement memorandum 
In principle approval from the exchange(s)] 
 
                                                           
429 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 144]
144 
 
SCHEDULE IV 
[See regulation 23(5)] 
MANDATORY DISCLOSURES 
430[Part-A] Mandatory Disclosures in the Annual Report 
(A privately placed InvIT may only disclose the items, as may be applicable to its structure and 
activities) 
1. Investment Manager's brief report of activities of the InvIT and summary of the audited 
consolidated financial statements for the year of the InvIT 
2. Management discussion and analysis by the directors of the Investment Manager on activities 
of the InvIT during the year, forecasts and future course of action 
3. Brief details of all the assets of the InvIT, project-wise 
4. Details of revenue during the year, project-wise from the underlying projects 
5. Brief summary of the valuation as per full valuation report as at the end of the year 
6. Any information or report pertaining to the specific sector or sub -sector that may be relevant 
for an investor to invest in units of the InvIT 
7. Details of changes during the year pertaining to 
a. Addition and divestment of assets including the identity of the buyers or sellers, purchase 
or sale prices and brief details of valuation for such transactions 
b. Valuation of assets and NAV (as per the full valuation reports) 
c. Borrowings or repayment of borrowings(standalone and consolidated) 
d. Credit rating 
e. Sponsor, Investment Manager, Trustee, valuer, directors of the Trustee or Investment 
Manager or sponsor, etc. 
                                                           
430 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019

[Page 145]
145 
 
f. Clauses in trust deed, investment  management agreement or any other agreement entered 
into pertaining to activities of InvIT 
g. Any regulatory changes that has impacted or may impact cash flows of the underlying 
projects 
h. Change in material contracts or any new risk in performance of any cont ract pertaining to 
the InvIT 
i. Any legal proceedings which may have significant bearing on the activities or revenues or 
cash flows of the InvIT 
j. Any other material change during the year 
8. Revenue of the InvIT for the last 5 years, project-wise 
9. Update on development of under-construction projects, if any 
10. Details of outstanding borrowings and deferred payments of InvIT including any credit 
rating(s), debt maturity profile, gearing ratios of the InvIT on a consolidated and standalone 
basis as at the end of the year 
11. The total operating expenses of the InvIT along with detailed break-up, including all fees and 
charges paid to the Investment Manager and any other parties, if any during the year 
12. Past performance of the InvIT with respect to unit price, distributions m ade and yield for the 
last 5 years, as applicable 
13. Unit price quoted on the exchange at the beginning and end of the financial year, the highest 
and lowest unit price and the average daily volume traded during the financial year 
14. 431[(1)] Details of all relate d party transactions during the year, value of which exceeds five 
per cent. of value of the InvIT 432[assets] 
433[2. Details regarding the monies lent by the InvIT to the holding company or the special 
purpose vehicle in which it has investment in.] 
                                                           
431 Clause numbered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
432 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulatio ns, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
433 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017

[Page 146]
146 
 
15. Details of issue and buyback of units during the year, if any 
16. 434[ Brief details of material and price sensitive information]  
17. Brief details of material litigations and regulatory actions, 435[ which are pending, against the 
InvIT, sponsor(s), Investment Manager, Project Manager(s), or any of their associates  436[, 
sponsor group(s)] and the Trustee] if any, as at the end of the year 
18. Risk factors  
19. Information of the contact person of the InvIT 
 
Mandatory annexure to the annual report 
1. Summary of the full valuation report 
2. Auditor's report 
 
437[Part-B] Mandatory disclosures in the Half-yearly report 
(A privately placed InvIT may only disclose the items, as may be applicable to its structure and 
activities) 
1. All details as provided above (other than clause (2) and mandatory annexures) for annual report 
for the previous half-year or as at the end of the half-year as applicable 
2. 438[***] 439[Financial] statements for the half year; (Standalone and consolidated) 
                                                           
434 Substituted for “Brief report on corporate governance” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
435 Substituted for “whether completed or pending, against the InvIT, sponsor(s), Investment Manager, Trustee or any 
of their associates, ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
436 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023. 
437 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019 
438 Omitted “Audited” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
439 Substituted for “financial” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 147]
147 
 
3. Updated valuation report by the valuer taking into account any  material developments during 
the previous half-year 
4. Any other material events during the half-year 
 
440[Part -C Mandatory disclosures in the quarterly report 
 
(A privately placed InvIT may only disclose the items, as may be applicable to its structure and 
activities)  
1. Financial statements for the quarter; (Standalone and consolidated)  
2. Updated valuation report by the valuer taking into account any material devel opments 
during the previous quarter  
3. Any other material events during the quarter]  
                                                           
440 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019

[Page 148]
148 
 
SCHEDULE V 
[See regulation 21(3)] 
MANDATORY MINIMUM DISCLOSURES IN FULL VALUATION REPORT 
The full valuation report shall include the following 
a. Name and brief details of the valuer along with details of registration under the Companies 
Act, 2013 
b. all material details in relation to the basis of valuation 
c. Description and explanation of the valuation methodologies adopted including assumptions 
used, justification of the assumptions, explanation of the rationale for choosing the particular 
valuation method if more than one method is or could have been adopted, etc 
d. overall structure and condition of the relevant market including an analysis of the supply-
demand situation, the market trend and investment activities 
e. Any information or report pertaining to the specific sector or sub -sector that may be relevant 
for valuation of the assets 
f. For every project, the following details 441[, to the extent applicable,] shall be mentioned  
i. Details of the project including whether the transaction is a related party transaction 
ii. Latest pictures of the project 
iii. the existing use of the project 
iv. the nature of the interest the InvIT holds or proposes to hold in the project, percentage 
of interest of the InvIT in the project 
v. Date of inspection and date of valuation 
vi. Qualifications and assumptions 
                                                           
441 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 149]
149 
 
vii. Method used for valuation  
viii. Valuation standards adopted  
ix. Extent of valuer's investigations and nature and source of data to be relied upon 
x. Purchase price of the project by the InvIT(for existing projects of the InvIT) 
xi. Valuation of the project in the previous 3 years; (for existing projects of the InvIT) 
xii. Detailed valuation of the project as calculated by the valuer;  
442[xiii.  List of one-time sanctions/approvals which are obtained or pending; 
xiv.  List of up to date/overdue periodic clearances; 
xv.  Statement of assets 443[***]included; 
xvi.  Estimates of already carried as well as proposed major repairs and improvements 
along with estimated time of completion; 
xvii.  Revenue pendencies including local authority taxes associated with InvIT asset 
and compounding charges, if any; 
xviii.  On-going 444[] material litigations including tax disputes in relation to the assets, 
if any; 
xix.  Vulnerability to natural or induced hazards that may not have been covered in 
town planning/ building control.] 
445[fa. Information regarding the assumed factors while calculating the valuation such as 
discounting rate, tenure etc.] 
                                                           
442 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016 
443 The word “included” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
444 The words “and closed” omitted ibid. 
445 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 150]
150 
 
g. any other matters which may affect the project or its value 
h. a declaration by the valuer that 
i. the valuer is competent to undertake the valuation 
ii. the valuer is independent and has prepared the report on a fair and unbiased basis 
iii. the valuer has valued the projects based on the valuation standards as specified under 
sub-regulation 10 of regulation 21 
SCHEDULE VI 
[See regulation 7(d)] 
 
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR InvIT AND PARTIES TO THE InvIT 
 
1. InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall conduct all affairs of the InvIT in the interest of all the 
unit-holders of the InvIT.  
2. InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall make adequate, accurate, explicit and timely disclosure 
of relevant material information to all unit holders, exchanges and the Board in accordance 
with these regulations and as may be specified by the stock exchanges from time to time.  
3. InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall try to avoid conflicts of interest, as far as possible, in 
managing the affairs of the InvIT and keep the interest of all unit holders paramount in all 
matters. In case such events  cannot be avoided, it shall be ensured that appropriate 
disclosures are made to the unit-holders and they are fairly treated.  
4. The InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall ensure that fees charged by them with respect to 
activity of InvIT shall be fair and reasonable. 
5. Investment manager shall carry out the business of the InvIT and invest in accordance

[Page 151]
151 
 
with the investment objectives stated in the offer document  446[or placement 
memorandum,] and take investment decisions solely in the interest of unit holders.  
6. InvIT, parties to the InvIT and any third party appointed by the investment manager shall 
not use any unethical means to sell, market or induce any person to buy units of the InvIT 
and where a third party appointed by the investment manager fails to comply  with this 
condition, the investment manager shall be held liable for the same.  
7. InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall maintain high standards of integrity and fairness in all 
their dealings and in the conduct of their business,  
8. InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall render at all times high standards of service, exercise 
due diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent professional judgment.  
9.  InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall not make any exaggerated statement, whether oral or 
written, either about their qualifications or capabilities or experience. 
  
                                                           
446 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amen dment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f 30.11.2016

[Page 152]
152 
 
447[SCHEDULE VII: GOVERNANCE NORMS 
PART A: MINIMUM INFORMATION TO BE PLACED BEFORE BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS OF THE INVESTMENT MANAGER 
 [See Regulation 26H (4)] 
 
The following minimum information to be placed before Board of Directors  of the 
investment manager: 
 
(a) Annual operating plans and budgets and any updates. 
(b) Capital budgets and any updates. 
(c) Quarterly results for the 448[InvIT] and its operating divisions or business segments. 
(d) Minutes of meetings of audit committee and other committees of the Board of 
Directors. 
(e) The information on recruitment and remuneration of senior officers just below the 
level of Board of Directors, including appointment or removal of Chief Financial 
Officer and the Compliance Officer.  
(f) Show cause, demand, prosecution notices and penalty notices, which are materially 
important. 
(g) Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences, any material effluent or pollution 
problems. 
(h) Any material default in financial obligations to and by the  InvIT, HoldCo. and/or 
SPV. 
(i) Any issue, which involves possible public or product liability claims of substantial 
nature, including any judgement or order which, may have passed strictures on the 
conduct of the investment manager or taken an adverse view re garding another 
enterprise that may have negative implications on the investment manager. 
(j) Details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement. 
                                                           
447 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 01.04.2023. 
448 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructur e Investment Trusts) (Amendme nt) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025. Prior to the substitution the words were “investment manager”.

[Page 153]
153 
 
(k) Significant labour problems and their proposed solutions, any significant 
development in Human Resources/ Ind ustrial Relations front like signing of wage 
agreement, implementation of Voluntary Retirement Scheme etc. 
(l) Sale of investments, HoldCo. and/or SPV, assets which are material in nature and 
not in normal course of business. 
(m) Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by management 
to limit the risks of adverse exchange rate movement, if material. 
(n) Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory or listing requirements and 
shareholders service such as non-payment of dividend, delay in share transfer etc. 
(o) Reports of tabletop exercises or workshops for identifying risks and vulnerabilities, 
and specifying risk mitigations and processes for addressing vulnerabilities.  
 
 
PART B: COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE 
 [See Regulation 26H (5)] 
 
The following compliance certificate shall be furnished by Chief Executive Officer, 
Chief Financial Officer and Compliance Officer shall state that: 
 
(a) They have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year 
and that to the best of their knowledge and belief: 
(1) these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any 
material fact or contain statements that might be misleading; 
(2) these statements together present a true and fair view of the  InvIT’s affairs 
and are in compliance with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and 
regulations.  
 
(b) There are, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into 
by the investment manager on behalf of InvIT during the year which are fraudulent, 
illegal or violative of the code of conduct.

[Page 154]
154 
 
 
(c) They accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for 
financial reporting and that they have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control 
systems of the investment manager pertaining to financial report ing and they have 
disclosed to the auditors and the audit committee, deficiencies in the design or 
operation of such internal controls, if any, of which they are aware and the steps they 
have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies. 
 
(d) They have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee: 
(1) significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the 
year; 
(2) significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same 
have been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements; and  
(3) instances of significant fraud of which they have become aware and the 
involvement therein, if any, of the management or an employee having a 
significant role in the investment manager’s internal control system over 
financial reporting of InvIT.]

[Page 155]
155 
 
449[SCHEDULE VIII: STEWARDSHIP CODE 
[See Regulation 4(2)(h)] 
The following principles of stewardship code shall be complied with by any unitholder holding 
not less than ten percent of the total outstanding units of the InvIT: 
 
1. They must act in the best interests of the InvIT and its unitholders as a whole; 
2. They should formulate a comprehensive policy on the discharge of their stewardship 
responsibilities and review and update the same periodically; 
3. They should have a policy to manage issu es of conflict of interest while fulfilling their 
stewardship responsibilities; 
4. They should periodically monitor the InvIT and its investee entities viz. HoldCo(s) and 
SPV(s); 
5. They should have a policy on intervention in the InvIT and its HoldCo(s) and SPV(s); 
6. They should have a policy on voting.] 
  
                                                           
449 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 18.08.2023.

[Page 156]
156 
 
450[Schedule – IX 
Part A - Minimum Provisions in Trust Deed 
[See regulation 17H(4)] 
The trust deed shall, inter alia, provide the following: 
1. Details of the trust, including: 
(i) Name of the trust; 
(ii) Object of the trust; 
(iii) Details of settlor; 
(iv) Details of scheme(s) administered; 
(v) Source(s) of funds; 
(vi) Description of the manner in which  the  trust  funds  shall  be  used  for 
meeting  the objects of the trust; 
(vii) Description of the classes of beneficiaries along with their rights and 
obligations; 
(viii) Details of trustee. 
2. Powers and duties of trustee, including: 
(i) To frame rules for administration of the scheme(s) in compliance with the 
scheme documents, object(s) of the trust and these regulations; 
(ii) To maintain books of account of the trus t as required under law including 
these regulations; 
3. Mode and manner of dissolution of the trust; 
4. Duties of the trustee which shall include that: 
(i) the trustee shall act in the interest of employees who are beneficiaries of the 
trust subject to provisions of these regulations,  
                                                           
450 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment ) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024.

[Page 157]
157 
 
(ii) the trustee shall not act in any manner or include any provision in the trust deed 
that would be detrimental to the interests of the beneficiaries. 
5. Such other clauses as are necessary for safeguarding the interests of the 
beneficiaries including such other clauses as specified by the Board. 
 
Part B - Terms and Conditions of schemes to be formulated by the Nomination 
and remuneration committee 
[See regulation 17L (2)] 
The nomination and remuneration committee is required to formulate the detailed 
terms and conditions of the schemes which shall, inter alia, include the following 
provisions: 
a.  the quantum of options per employee and in aggregate under a scheme; 
b.  the conditions under which options may vest in employees and may laps e in case 
of termination of employment for misconduct; 
c.  the exercise period within which the employee can exercise the options and that 
options would lapse on failure to exercise the same within the exercise period; 
d.  the specified time period within which th e employee shall exercise the vested 
options in the event of termination or resignation; 
e.  the right of an employee to exercise all the options vested in him at one time or at 
various points of time within the exercise period; 
f.  the procedure for making a fair  and reasonable adjustment to the entitlement 
including adjustment to the number of options and to the exercise price in case of 
any corporate actions. In this regard, the following shall, inter alia, be taken into 
consideration by the nomination and remuneration committee: 
i.  the number and price of options shall be adjusted in a manner such that total 
value to the employee of the options remains the same after the corporate 
action;

[Page 158]
158 
 
ii.  the vesting period and the life of the options shall be left unaltered as far   as 
possible to protect the rights of the employee(s) who is granted such options; 
g.  the grant, vesting and exercise of options in case of employees who are on long 
leave; and 
h.  the procedure for funding the exercise of options  
 
Part C - Contents of the explanatory statement to the notice and resolution for 
unitholders meeting 
[See regulations 17M (4) and 17Q (9)] 
The explanatory statement to the notice and the resolution proposed to be passed for 
the unit based employee benefit schemes shall, inter alia , con tain the following 
information: 
a.  brief description of the scheme(s); 
b.  the total number of options to be offered and granted;  
c.  identification of classes of employees entitled to participate and be beneficiaries 
in the scheme(s); 
d.  requirements of vesting and period of vesting; 
e.  maximum period (subject to these regulations) within which the options shall be 
vested; 
f.  exercise price, purchase price or pricing formula; 
g.  exercise period/offer period and process of exercise/ acceptance of offer;  
h.  the appraisal process for determining the eligibility of employees for the 
scheme(s); 
i.  maximum number of options to be offered and issued per employee and in 
aggregate, if any;  
j.  maximum quantum of benefits to be provided per employee under a scheme(s);

[Page 159]
159 
 
k.  whether the scheme(s) involves new issue of units by the InvIT or gift or secondary 
acquisition by the trust or all; 
l.  maximum percentage of secondary acquisition (subject to limits specified under 
these regulations) that can be made by the trust for the purposes of the scheme(s); 
m.  a statement to the effect that the investment manager shall conform to the 
accounting policies specified in regulation 17Q(7); 
n.  the method which the investment manager shall use to value the options; 
o.  period of lock-in.  
 
Part D - Information required in the statement to be filed with recognised 
Stock Exchange(s) 
[See regulation 17N (1)(b)] 
 
Description of Schemes 
 
1.  Unit Capital of the InvIT as on date of institution of the scheme/ amendment of 
the scheme. 
2.  Date of institution of the scheme/ amendment of the scheme. 
3.  Validity period of the scheme. 
4.  Date of notice of unitholders meeting for approving the scheme/for amending the 
scheme/for approving grants under regulation 22(5)(l) of these regulations.  
5.  Date of unitholders meeting approving the scheme/amending th e 
scheme/approving  grants under regulation 22(5)(l) of these regulations. 
6.  Kinds of benefit granted under the scheme. 
7.  Identity of classes of persons eligible under the scheme: 
(a) employees, 
(b) employees outside India,

[Page 160]
160 
 
(c) directors, except independent directors. 
8.  Total number of units reserved under the scheme, as applicable. 
9.  Number of units entitled under the grant. 
10.  Total number of grants to be made. 
11.  Maximum number of options to be granted per employee per grant and in 
aggregate. 
12.  Exercise price or pricing formula. 
13.  Whether any amount is payable at the time of grant? If so, quantum of such 
amount. 
14.  Lock-in period under the scheme. 
15.  Vesting period under the scheme. 
16.  Maximum period within which the grant shall be vested. 
17.  Exercise period under the scheme. 
18.  Whether employee can exercise all the options vested at one time? Yes/No 
19.  Whether employee can exercise vested options at various points of time within the 
exercise period? Yes/No 
20.  Whether scheme provides for the procedure for making a fair and reasonable 
adjustment to the numb er of options and to the exercise price in case of any 
corporate actions? Clause in scheme describing such adjustment. 
21.  Description of the appraisal process for determining the eligibility of employees 
under the scheme. 
22.  The specified time period within whic h vested options are to be exercised in the 
event of termination or resignation of an employee. 
23.  The specified time period within which options to be exercised in the event of 
death of the employee.

[Page 161]
161 
 
24.  Whether the scheme provides for conditions under which opt ions vested in 
employees may lapse in case of termination of employment for misconduct? 
Clause in Scheme describing such adjustment. 
25.  Whether scheme provides for conditions for the grant, vesting and exercise of 
options in case of employees who are on long leave? Clause in scheme describing 
such adjustment. 
26.  Whether amount paid/payable by the employee at the time of the grant, vesting or 
exercise of the options will be forfeited if the employee does not exercise the same 
within the exercise period? Clause in scheme describing such adjustment. 
27.  Details of approval of unitholders pursuant to sub -regulation (5) of regulation 22 
of these regulations with respect to: 
(a) Grant to identified employees, during any one year, equal to or exceeding 1% 
of the unit capital of the InvIT at the time of grant. 
28.  Details of the variation made to the scheme along with the rationale therefor and 
the details of the employees who are beneficiary of such variation: 
 
Sd/- 
Company Secretary / Compliance Officer 
Place: 
Date: 
 
Documents to be filed with the registration statement 
1.  Copy of scheme, certified by the Company Secretary / Compliance Officer. 
2.  Copy of notice of unitholder meeting approving the scheme/for amending the 
scheme/for approving grants under 22(5)(l) of these regulations certified by the 
Company Secretary / Compliance Officer. 
3.  Copy of resolution of unitholders for  approving  the  scheme/  for  amending  the 
scheme/for approving grants under sub -regulation (5) of regulation 22 of these 
regulations certified by the Company Secretary / Compliance Officer.

[Page 162]
162 
 
4.  List of sponsors as defined under these regulations. 
5.  Copy of latest Annual Report of the InvIT. 
6.  Certificate of Secretarial Auditor on compliance with these regulations. 
7.  Specimen copy of unit certificate, if applicable. 
8.  Any other relevant documents. 
 
Undertakings 
The undersigned investment manager hereby undertakes: 
1.  To file a post -effective amendment to this statement to include any material 
information with respect to the scheme of distribution not previously disclosed in 
the statement or any material change to such information in the statement. 
2.  To notify the concerned recognised stock exchanges on which the units of the 
InvIT are listed, of each issue of units  pursuant to the exercise of options under 
the scheme mentioned in  this statement, in the specified form, as amended from 
time to time. 
3.  That the investment manager shall conform to the accounting policies specified in 
regulation 17Q(7) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014. 
4.  That the scheme confirms to the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014.  
5.  That  the  investment manager has  in  place  systems  /  codes  /  procedures  to  
comply  with the Securities  and   Exchange  Board  of  India  (Insider  Trading)  
Regulations,  2015  or  any modification or re-enactment thereto. 
 
Signatures 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and  Exchange  Board  of  India Act, 
1992 (15 of 1992) and the Securities and Exc hange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, the investment manager certifies that it has 
reasonable grounds  to  believe that  it  meets  all  the  requirements for the filing of

[Page 163]
163 
 
this form and has duly caused this statement t o be signed on its behalf by the 
undersigned, thereunto, duly authorized 
 
 
Name of the investment manager 
 
Name of the Compliance Officer  
 
Designation 
Date:  
Place: 
 
 
Part E - Format of notification for issue of units 
[See regulation 17N(1)(c)] 
 
1.  Name of InvIT and address of Registered Office: 
2.  Name of the recognised Stock Exchanges on which the units of InvIT are listed: 
3.  Filing date of the statement referred in regulation 17N(1)(b) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Tr usts) Regulations, 2014  
with the recognised Stock Exchange: 
4.  Filing Number, if any : 
5.  Title of the Scheme pursuant to which units are issued, if any: 
6.  Kind of security to be listed : 
7.  Date of issue of units  : 
8.  Number of units issued : 
9.  Unit Certificate No., if applicable : 
10.  Distinctive number of the units, if applicable : 
11.  ISIN Number of the units  : 
12.  Exercise price per unit:

[Page 164]
164 
 
13.  Total issued units  after this issue : 
14.  Total issued unit capital after this issue : 
15.  Details of any lock-in on the units  : 
16.  Date of expiry of lock-in : 
17.  Details of listing fees, if payable: 
 
Signature of Company Secretary/Compliance Officer 
Date:  
Place: 
 
Part F - Disclosures in the annual report of the InvIT  
[See regulation 17R(1)] 
The investment manager in the annual report of the InvIT shall disclose any material 
change in the scheme(s) and whether the scheme(s) is / are in compliance with the 
regulations. 
Further, the following details, inter alia, shall be disclosed on the InvIT’s website 
and a     web-link thereto shall be provided in the annual report. 
 
A. Relevant disclosures in terms of the accounting standards prescribed by the 
Central Government in terms of section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 
of 2013) including  the 'Guidance note on accounting for employee share-
based payments' issued in that regard from time to time. 
B. Details related to Unit Option Scheme 
(i) A description of each unit option scheme that existed at any time during 
the year, including the general terms and conditions of each unit option 
scheme, including - 
(a) Date of unitholders' approval 
(b) Total number of options approved under unit option scheme

[Page 165]
165 
 
(c) Vesting requirements 
(d) Exercise price or pricing formula 
(e) Maximum term of options granted 
(f) Source of units  (primary, secondary, gift or combination) 
(g) Variation in terms of options 
(ii) Method used to account for unit option scheme  - Intrinsic or fair value. 
(iii) Option movement during the year (For each unit option scheme): 
 
 
(iv) Weighted-average exercise prices and weighted -average fair values of options 
shall be  disclosed separately for options whose exercise price either equals or 
exceeds or is less  than the market price of the units. 
 
(v) Employee wise details (name of employee, designation, number of options 
granted during the year, exercise price) of options granted to - 
 
(a) senior managerial personnel as defined under clause (d) of sub-regulation (1) 
of regulation 16 of the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015; 
 
(b) any other employee who receives a grant in any one year of option 
 
Particulars 
 
Details 
 
Number of options outstanding at the beginning of the period  
 
Number of options granted during the year  
 
Number of options forfeited / lapsed during the year  
 
Number of options vested during the year  
 
Number of options exercised during the year  
 
Number of units  arising as a result of exercise of options  
 
Number of options outstanding at the end of the year  
 
Number of options exercisable at the end of the year

[Page 166]
166 
 
amounting to 5% or more of option granted during that year; and 
 
(c) identified employees who were granted option, during any one year, equal 
to or exceeding 1% of the unit capital of the InvIT at the time of grant. 
 
(vi) A description of the method and significant assumptions used during the year to 
estimate the fair value of options including the following information: 
 
(a) the weighted -average values of unit price, exercise price, expected 
volatility, expected option life, expected dividends, the risk-free interest rate 
and any other  inputs to the model; 
 
(b) the method used and the assumptions made to incorporate the effects of   
expected early exercise; 
 
(c) how expected volatility was determined, including an explanation of the 
extent to which expected volatility was based on historical volatility; and 
 
(d) whether and how any other features of the options granted were 
incorporated into the measurement of fair value, such as a market condition. 
 
 
C. Details related to Trust 
 
(i) The following details, inter alia, in connection with transactions made  by the 
Trust meant for the purpose of administering the schemes under the regulations 
are to be disclosed: 
(ii) General information on all schemes 
 
 
Sl. No. 
 
Particulars 
 
Details 
1. Name of the Trust

[Page 167]
167 
 
2. Details of the Trustee  
3. Any other contribution made to the 
Trust during the year 
 
(iii) Brief details of transactions in units by the Trust 
(a) Number of units  held at the beginning of the year; 
 
(b) Number of units  acquired during the year through (i) primary issuance (ii) 
secondary acquisition, also as a percentage of unit capital as at the end of     the 
previous financial year, along with information on weighted average cost of 
acquisition per unit; 
 
(c) Number of units  transferred to the employees; 
 
(d) Number of units held at the end of the year. 
(iv) In case of secondary acquisition of units by the Trust 
Number of Units As a percentage of unit capital as at the end 
of the year immediately preceding the year 
in which unitholders' approval was 
obtained 
Held at the beginning of the year  
Acquired during the year  
Transferred to the employees during 
the  year 
 
Held at the end of the year  
Part G - Disclosure Document  
[See regulation 17Q (6)] 
A: Statement of Risks 
All investments in units or options are subject to risk as the value of units may 
increase or reduce. In addition, the options /are subject to the following additional risks:

[Page 168]
168 
 
1. Concentration: The risk arising out of any fall in value of units is aggravated 
if the employee's holding is concentrated in the units of a single InvIT. 
2. Leverage: Any change in the value of the unit may lead to a significantly larger 
change  in the value of the options. 
3. Illiquidity: The options cannot be transferred to anybody and therefore the  
employees cannot mitigate their risks by selling the whole or part of their 
benefits before they are exercised. 
4. Vesting: The options will lapse if the employment is terminated prior to 
vesting. Even after the options are vested, the unexercised options may be 
forfeited if the employee is terminated for gross misconduct. 
 
B: Information about the InvIT 
1. Business of the InvIT: A description of the main objects and present business 
of the  InvIT. 
2. Abridged financial information: Abridged financial information, for the last 
five years  for which audited financial information is available, as specified by the 
Board from  time to time. The last audited accounts of the InvIT shall also be 
provided unless this has already been provided to the employee in connection with 
a previous option or grant or otherwise. 
3. Risk Factors: Management perception of the risk factors for the InvIT.  
 
4. Continuing disclosure requirement: The option grantee shall be provided  
copies of all documents that are sent to the unitholders of the InvIT. This shall 
include  the annual accounts of the InvIT as well as notices of meetings and the 
accompanying explanatory statements. 
 
C: Salient Features of the Scheme 
 
This Part shall contain the salient features of the scheme of the investment 
manager including the conditions regarding vesting, exercise, adjustment for 
corporate actions, and forfeiture of vested options. It shall not be necessary to

[Page 169]
169 
 
include this Part if  it has already been provided to the employee in connection 
with a previous grant and no changes have taken place in the scheme since then. 
If the scheme administrator provides advisory services to the grantees in 
connection with the exercise of options or sale of resulting units, such advice shall 
be accompanied by an appropriate disclosure of concentration and other risks. The 
scheme administrator shall conform to the code of conduct appropriate for such 
fiduciary relationships.] 
 
 
451[Schedule – X 
Illustrative Roles and Responsibilities of Trustees 
[See regulation 9(23)] 
1. Asset Management Oversight: 
The trustee shall: 
i.  conduct regular physical inspections of InvIT assets; and 
ii.  supervise the maintenance and compliance of assets with safety and operation al 
standards. 
2. Regulatory Compliance and Reporting: 
i.  The trustee shall provide periodic confirmations to SEBI that trustees have not engaged 
in transactions involving the units of the InvIT they manage. 
ii.  The trustee shall ensure that the investment manager su bmits information to the 
trustees including: 
a) List of unitholders on quarterly basis; 
b) Shareholding of InvIT in SPV, HoldCo and Investment entity and changes if any 
on a quarterly basis; 
c) Confirmation on compliance with leverage limit on a quarterly basis and  at the 
time of acquisition and disposal of assets; 
                                                           
451 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 2.4.2025.

[Page 170]
170 
 
d) Trustee may request for due diligence report or such other information in respect 
of any acquisition; 
e) Net worth compliance certificate from investment manager on a half yearly 
basis; 
f) Net worth compliance certificate of sponsor and investment manager from 
practicing Chartered Accountant on an annual basis; and 
g) Confirmation on the details of unclaimed distributions till the previous quarter. 
iii.  The trustee shall ensure that the distribution of net distributable  cash flow has been 
made by the investment manager in accordance with these regulations and the trust 
deed. 
iv.  Where the trustee has reason to believe that the conduct of business of the InvIT is not 
in accordance with these regulations they shall forthwith t ake such remedial steps as 
are necessary by them and shall immediately inform the unitholders and the Board of 
the violation and the action taken by them. 
3. Managerial Oversight: 
i.  The trustee shall hold annual and as -needed meetings with the investment manage r's 
senior management and the chairperson of the audit committee. 
4. Information and Documentation: 
The trustee shall: 
i.  request and review detailed reports and documents from the investment manager 
regarding the operational, financial, and compliance status of the InvIT; and 
ii.  require investment manager to provide due diligence reports, net worth compliance 
certificates, and confirmations of unclaimed distributions. 
5. Record-Keeping: 
The trustee shall: 
i.  seek necessary records maintained by the investment manager for  compliance with 
regulation 26(2) of these regulations; and 
ii.  maintain comprehensive and systematic records of all trustee activities, decisions, and 
notable transactions to ensure accountability and ease of audit. 
6. Ethics and Conflict of Interest:

[Page 171]
171 
 
The trustee shall: 
i.  ensure that the investment manager has not given any undue or unfair advantage to 
any associates or dealt with any of the associates of the investment manager in any 
manner detrimental to interest of the unitholders; 
ii.  ensure that there is no conflict of interest between the manner of deployment of its net 
worth by the investment manager and the interest of the unitholders; 
iii.  ensure that the investment manager manages the InvIT independently of other 
activities and have taken adequate steps to en sure that the interest of investors of the 
InvIT are not being compromised with other activities of the InvIT or the investment 
manager; and 
iv.  abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Schedule VI of these regulations. 
7. Auditing and Financial Review: 
The trustee shall: 
i.  be accountable for, and be the custodian of, the funds and property of the respective 
InvIT and shall hold the same in trust for the benefit of the unitholders in accordance 
with these regulations and the provisions of trust deed; and 
ii.  review the net worth of the investment manager on a half -yearly basis to ensure 
compliance with the threshold provided in these regulations on a continuous basis. 
8. Due Diligence: 
i.  The trustee shall exercise due diligence as under: 
A. General Due Diligence: 
The trustee shall: 
a) be discerning in the appointment of the directors on the Board of the investment 
manager; 
b) review the desirability or continuance of the investment manager if substantial 
irregularities are observed in the InvIT; 
c) ensure that the trust prop erty is properly protected, held and administered by 
proper persons and by a proper number of such persons; 
d) ensure   that   all   service   providers   are   holding   appropriate registrations 
from the Board or concerned regulatory authority;

[Page 172]
172 
 
e) arrange for test checks of service contracts; and 
f) immediately report to the Board of any special developments in the trust. 
B. Specific due diligence: 
The trustee shall: 
a) obtain audit reports of the investment manager and the InvIT, its HoldCo(s) 
and SPV(s) at regular intervals from auditors appointed by the investment 
manager; 
b) obtain secretarial compliance reports from the investment manager; 
c) consider the reports of the auditor and secretarial compliance reports of InvIT 
at their board meetings for appropriate action; 
d) review the activity of the InvIT on a quarterly basis and place the report of the 
same before their Board of directors; 
e) consider the reports of the auditor and compliance reports of investment 
manager at their board meetings for appropriate action; 
f) maintain records and minutes of the Board of directors’ meetings of the trustee 
for the review of information pertaining to the InvIT; 
g) prescribe and adhere to a code of ethics by the trustee, investment manager and 
its personnel; and 
h) communicate in writing to the  investment manager of the deficiencies and 
check on necessary measures taken by investment manager for the rectification 
of deficiencies. 
ii.  The trustee shall also exercise due diligence on such matters as may be specified by 
the Board from time to time.]

[Page 173]
173 
 
 
 
 
UK SINHA 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

[Page 174]
174 
 
Note: 
1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 was published in the Gazette of India on September 26, 2014 vide 
notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/10/1577. 
 
2. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 was amended on –  
a) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, vide No. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016 -17/021, 
with effect from November 30, 2016. 
 
b) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2017, vide No. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/38, with 
effect from March 6, 2017. 
 
c) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2017, vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2017-18/024, 
with effect from December 15, 2017. 
 
d) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Inves tment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2018/07, with 
effect from April 10, 2018. 
 
e) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2019/10, with  
effect from April 22, 2019. 
 
f) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020, vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2020/05, with 
effect from March 02, 2020.

[Page 175]
175 
 
g) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory Sa ndbox) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2020/10, with effect from April 
17, 2020. 
 
h) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2020/15, with 
effect from June 16, 2020. 
 
i) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2021/27, with 
effect from July 30, 2021. 
 
j) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory Sandbo x) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2021/30, with effect from 
August 3, 2021. 
 
k) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2022/83, with 
effect from May 4, 2022. 
 
l) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2022/101 with 
effect from January 1, 2023.  
 
m) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Invest ment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2023/122 with 
effect from February 14, 2023.  
 
n) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD –
NRO/GN/2023/137 with effect from July 4, 2023.

[Page 176]
176 
 
 
o) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2023/145 with 
effect from August 16, 2023. 
 
p) Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Facilitation  of  Grievance  Redressal  
Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2023/146 with effect from August 18, 2023. 
 
q) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Inves tment Trusts) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2023/159 with 
effect from October 23, 2023. 
 
r) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 202 4 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2024/182 with 
effect from May 27, 2024. 
 
s) Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)  
(Second  Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2024/192 with effect from July 13, 2024.   
 
t) Securities   and   Exchange   Board   of   India   (Infrastructure   Investment   Trusts)   
(Third   Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2024/207 with effect from September 27, 2024.   
 
u) Securities and  Exchange Board  of  India  (Investor  Charter)  (Amendment)  
Regulations,  2025  vide notification F No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2025/228 with 
effect from February 10, 2025.

[Page 177]
177 
 
v) Securities and Exchange Board  of  India  (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)  
(Amendment)  Regulations, 2025 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/240 with effect from April 2, 2025. 
 
w) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Re gulations, 2025 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/243 with effect from April 29, 2025. 
 
x) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/259 with effect from September 3, 2025. 
 
y) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/286 with effect from December 11, 2025. 
 
z) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Inf rastructure Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026  vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2026/301 with effect from April 17, 2026. 
 
 
***
