[Page 1]
1 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(INVESTMENT ADVISERS) REGULATIONS, 2013 
(Amended upto November 25, 2025) 
No. LAD-NRO/GN/2012-13/31/1778.-In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1) 
of Section 30 read with clause (b) of sub -section (2) of Section 11 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
hereby, makes the following regulations, namely, — 
 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 
(2) These regulations shall come into force on the ninetieth day from the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 
Definitions. 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined 
herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions 
shall be construed accordingly,–   
(a)  “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
1[(aa) “accreditation agency” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause 
(aa) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012; 
(ab) “accredited investor” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under 
clause (ab ) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012;] 
2[3[(ac)]  “assets under advice” shall mean the aggregate net asset value  of securities        
4[***] for which the in vestment adviser has rendered investment advice 
                                                 
1 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021.  
2 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020.  
3 Substituted for “(aa)” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03 -
08-2021.  
 
4 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. Prior to its omission, the following words of clause (ac) read as under:

[Page 2]
2 
 
irrespective of whether the implementation services are provided by 
investment adviser or concluded by the client directly or through other service 
providers;] 
(b)  "Board" means the Securities and Exchange B oard of India established under 
section 3 of the Act; 
(c)    “body corporate” shall have the meaning assigned to it in or  5[under sub -
section (11) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)]; 
(d)     “certificate” means a certificate of registration granted under these regulations; 
6[(e) “Change in control” – 
(i) in case of a body corporate –  
(A) if its shares are listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be construed 
with reference to the definition of control in terms of regulations framed  under 
clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act;  
(B) if its shares are not listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be 
construed with reference to the definition of control as provided in sub -section 
(27) of Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);   
(ii) in a case other than that of a body corporate, shall be construed as any change in 
its legal formation or ownership or change in controlling interest. 
Explanation – For the purpose of sub -clause (ii), the expression “controll ing 
interest” means an interest, direct or indirect, to the extent of not less than fifty 
percent of voting rights or interest;] 
                                                                                                                                                        
“and investment products” 
 
5 Substituted for the words, symbols and numbers “under sub -section (7) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 
1956 (1 of 1956)” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
 
6 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Control in Intermediarie s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 17-1-2023. Prior to its substitution, clause (e) read as under: 
““change in control” in relation to a company or a body corporate, means:  
(i) if its shares are listed on any recognized stock exchange, change in control within the meaning of 
clause (e) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;  
(ii) in any other case, change in the controlling interest or change in legal form.  
Explanation.─ For the purpose of sub -clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means an 
interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of more than fifty percent of voting rights or interest;”

[Page 3]
3 
 
(f) “company” means a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956  7[or 
Companies Act, 2013]; 
(g) “consideration” means a ny form of economic benefit including non -cash benefit, 
received or receivable for providing investment advice; 
 8[(ga) 9[***] 
(gb)   “family of client” shall include individual client, dependent spouse, dependent   
children and dependent parents; 
(gc)  “family of an individual investment adviser” shall include individual 
investment adviser, spouse, children and parents;] 
(h) “financial planning” shall include analysis of clients ’ current financial situation, 
identification of their financial goals, and dev eloping and recommending financial 
strategies to realise such goals; 
(i)  “firm” means a partnership firm registered  under  Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (9 of 
1932); 
(j) “form” means any of the forms set out in the First Schedule;  
(k) “inspecting authori ty” means any one or more persons appointed by the Board  to 
exercise powers conferred under regulation 23; 
(l) “investment advice” means advice relating to investing in, purchasing, selling or 
otherwise dealing in securities 10[***] and  advice on investme nt portfolio containing 
securities 11[***] whether written, oral or through any other means of communication 
for the benefit of the client and shall include financial planning:  
                                                 
7 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
 
8 ibid. 
 
9 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. Prior to its omission, clause (ga) read as under; 
“ (ga) “CPE” means continuing professional education in terms of clause (f) of sub regulation (1) of 
regulation 2 of the SEBI (Certification of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets) Regulations, 
2007;” 
10 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (In vestment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. Prior to its omission, the following words of clause (l) read as under  
“and investment products” 
 
11 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Se cond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. Prior to its omission, the following words of clause (l) read as under  
“and investment products”

[Page 4]
4 
 
Provided that investment advice given through newspaper, magazines, any electro nic 
or  broadcasting or telecommunications medium, which is widely available to the 
public shall not be considered as investment advice for the purpose of these 
regulations; 
12[Provided further that trading calls shall not be considered as investment advice  for 
purpose of these regulations.] 
(m)  “investment adviser” means any person, who for consideration, is engaged in the 
business of providing investment advice to clients or other persons or group of 
persons and includes 13[a part-time investment adviser o r] any person who holds out 
himself as an investment adviser, by whatever name called; 
(n)   “limited liability partnership” means a partnership formed and registered under The 
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008(6 of  2009); 
(o) “NBFC” means a Non-Banking Financial Company regulated by Reserve Bank of India; 
(p) “NISM” means the National Institute of Securities Market established by the Board; 
14[(pa) “non-individual” means a body corporate including a limited liability partnership 
and a partnership firm;] 
15[(pb) “other business activity or employment” means such business activity or 
employment which is not related to securities and:  
a. it does not involve handling or managing of money or funds of client or 
person; or  
b. it is not related to providing advice or recommendation to any client or 
person in respect of any products or assets for investment purposes;] 
(q) “partner” means partner of the firm or a limited liability partnership who renders 
investment advice on behalf of the firm or limited liability partnership; 
16[(qa) “part-time investment adviser” means an individual or a firm, who for consideration, 
is engaged in the business of providing investment advice and is also engaged in any 
other business activity or employment;] 
                                                 
12 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
13 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
14 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
15 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024.

[Page 5]
5 
 
17[(r) “persons associa ted with investment advice” shall mean any member, partner, 
officer, director or employee or any sales staff of such investment adviser including any 
person occupying a similar status or performing a similar function irrespective of the 
nature of association with the investment adviser who is engaged in providing investment 
advisory services to the clients of the investment adviser; 
   Explanation. — 
All client -facing persons such as sales  staff, service relationship managers , client 
relationship managers , etc., by whatever name called shall be deemed to be persons 
associated with investment advice , but do not include persons who discharge clerical or 
office administrative functions where there is no client interface.] 
18[(s) “principal officer” in case of non-individual investment adviser engaged:  
(i) solely in providing investment advisory services, shall mean the managing director 
or designated director or managing partner or executive chairman of the board or 
equivalent management body who is responsible for the overall function of the business 
and operations of non-individual investment adviser;  
(ii) in the activities other than investment advisory services, through separate 
departments/divisions, may be the person at the management level who is a busine ss 
head or unit head, responsible for the overall function of the business and operations 
related to investment advisory services:  
Provided that in case of non-individual investment adviser being a partnership firm, one 
of the partners shall be designated as its principal officer:  
Provided further that where no partner of firm registered as an investment adviser has 
minimum qualification and certification requirements provided in these regulations, it 
shall apply for registration as an investment adviser in the form of a limited liability 
partnership or a body corporate within such time as may be specified by the Board.  
Explanation. — The provisions of sub clause (i) shall also be applicable to the principal 
officer of a non-individual entity registered both as an investment adviser and a research 
analyst but engaged in no other business activity.] 
19[(t) “research analyst” means any person registered under Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Research Analysts) Regulations, 2014;  
                                                                                                                                                        
16 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
17 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (r) read as under;                                                                                              
“(r) “representative” means an employee or an agent of an investment adviser who renders investment 
advice on behalf of that investment adviser.” 
 
18 Substituted by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Ame ndment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. Prior to its substitution, clause (s) read as under; 
“(s) “principal  officer”  shall  mean  the  managing director  or  designated  director  or managing 
partner or executive chairman of the board or equivalen t management body who  is  responsible  for  
the  overall  function  of  the  business  and  operations  of  non-individual investment adviser.”

[Page 6]
6 
 
(u) “trading calls” sh all have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (zc) of 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation (2) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Research Analysts) Regulations, 2014.] 
(2) The words and expressions used and not defined in these regulati ons but defined 
in the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the 
20[Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)], or any rules or regulations made thereunder shall 
have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts, rules o r 
regulations made thereunder or any statutory modification or re -enactment thereto, as 
the case may be. 
 
CHAPTER II 
REGISTRATION OF INVESTMENT ADVISERS 
Application for grant of certificate. 
3. (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, no person shall act as an 
investment adviser or hold itself out as an investment adviser unless he has obtained a 
certificate of registration from the Board under these regulations: 
21[***] 
22[(1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), any application made 
by a person prior to coming into force of these regulations containing such particulars 
or as near thereto as mention ed in Form A of First Schedule shall be treated as an 
application made in pursuance of sub-regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly;] 
(2) An application for grant of certificate of registration shall be made in Form A as 
specified in the First Schedule to these regulations and shall be accompanied by a non -
refundable application fee to be paid in the manner specified in Second Schedule.  
23[(3) On and from the date of commencement of these regulations, no person,  while 
dealing in distribution of securities,  shall use the nomenclature “Independent Financial 
Adviser or IFA or Wealth Adviser or any other similar name ” unless registered with the 
Board as Investment Adviser.”] 
                                                                                                                                                        
19 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
20 Substituted for the words, symbols and numbers “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” by the SEBI (Investment 
Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
 
21 Omitted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to its 
omission, regulation 3(1) proviso read as under;  
“Provided that a person acting as an investment adviser immediately before the commencement of 
these regulations may continue to do so for a period of six months from such commencement or, if it 
has made an application for a certificate under sub -regulation (2) within the said period of six months, 
till the disposal of such application.” 
22 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
23 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020.

[Page 7]
7 
 
Exemption from registration. 
4. The following persons shall not be required to seek registration under regulation 3 
subject to the fulfillment of the conditions stipulated therefor, — 
(a) Any person who gives general comment s in good faith in regard to trends in the 
financial or securities market or the economic situation where such comments do 
not specify any particular securities or investment product; 
(b) Any insurance agent or insurance broker who offers investment advice sol ely in 
insurance products and is registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority for such activity; 
(c) Any pension advisor who offers investment advice solely on pension products and 
is registered with Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Au thority for such 
activity; 
(d) Any distributor of mutual funds, who is a member of a self regulatory organisation 
recognised by the Board or is registered with an association of asset management 
companies of mutual funds, providing any investment advice to its clients 
incidental to its primary activity; 
(e) Any a dvocate, solicitor or law firm, who provides investment advice to their 
clients, incidental to their legal practise; 
(f) Any member of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India , Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India , Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India , Actuarial 
Society of India or any other professional body as may be specified by the Board , 
who provides investment advice to their clients, incidental to his professional 
service; 
(g) Any s tock br oker 24[***] registered under SEBI (Stock Broker s 25[***]) 
Regulations, 1992, portfolio manager registered under SEBI (Portfolio Managers) 
Regulations, 1993 or merchant banker registered under SEBI (Merchant Bankers) 
Regulations, 1992, who provides any investment advice to its clients incidental to 
their primary activity: 
Provided that such intermediaries shall comply with the general obligation(s) and 
responsibilities as specified in Chapter III of these regulations: 
Provided further that existing portfolio manager offering only investment advisory 
services may apply for registration under these regulations after expiry of his 
current certificate of registration as a portfolio manager;  
(h) Any f und manager, by whatever name called of a mutual fund, alternative 
investment fund or any other intermediary or entity registered with the Board;  
                                                 
24 Omitted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25-11-2025. 
25 ibid.

[Page 8]
8 
 
(i) Any person who provide s investment advice exclusively to clients based out of 
India:  
Provided that persons providing investment advice to Non-Resident Indian  or 
Person of Indian Origin shall fall within the purview of these regulations; 
(j) Any 26[principal officer, persons associated with advice ] and partner of  an 
investment adviser which is registered under these regulations:  
Provided that such 27[principal officer, persons associated with advice] and partner 
shall comply with regulation 7 of these regulations; 
(k) Any other person as may be specified by the Board. 
Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation. 
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification 
regarding matters relevant to investment advisory services for the purpose of 
consideration of the application filed under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3. 
(2) The applicant or his au thorised representative, if so required, shall appear before 
the Board for personal representation. 
Consideration of application and eligibility criteria.  
6. For the purpose of the grant of certificate the Board shall take into account all matters 
which are relevant to the grant of certificate of registration and in particular the 
following, namely, — 
(a) whether the applicant is an individual or 28[a non-individual]; 
29[(b) in case the applicant is an individual, he and all persons associated with 
investment advic e are appropriately qualified and certified as specified in 
regulation 7;] 
30[(c) in case the applicant is a body corporate, the principal officer and all persons 
associated with investment advice of the applicant are appropriately qualified and 
certified as specified in regulation 7;] 
                                                 
26 Substituted for  the word  “representative” by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
 
27 ibid 
28 Substituted for the words “a body corporate or a firm”  by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
 
29 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (b) read as under; 
“whether in case the applicant is an individual, he is appropriately qualified and certified as specified 
in regulation 7;”. 
 
30 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (c) read as under;

[Page 9]
9 
 
31[(d) in case the applicant is a firm or a limited liability partnership, the principal 
officer and all persons associated with investment advice of the applicant are 
appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;]  
(e)  whether the applicant fulfills the 32[deposit] requirements as specified in regulation 
8;  
33[(f) whether the applicant, its partners, principal officer and persons associated with 
investment advice, if any, are fit and proper persons based o n the criteria as 
specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;] 
(g) whether the applicant has the necessary infrastructure to effectively discharge the 
activities of an investment adviser; 
(h) whether t he applicant or any person directly or indirectly connected with the 
applicant has in the past been refused certificate by the Board and if so, the 
grounds for such refusal;  
(i) whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other 
regulatory authority against any person directly or indirectly connected to the 
applicant under the respective Act, rules or regulations made thereunder;  
(j) In case a bank or an NBFC proposes to undertake investment advisory services, 
whether it has been permitted b y Reserve Bank of India  and the application is 
made through a subsidiary or separately identifiable department or division; 
(k) In case a ny 34[non-individual], other than a Bank or NBFC, which proposes to 
undertake investment advisory services, whether, the app lication is made through 
a separately identifiable department or division; 
                                                                                                                                                        
“whether in case the applicant is a body corporate, all the representatives of the applicant who  provide 
investment advice are appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;”  
 
31 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (d) read as under;  
“whether in case the applicant is a firm or a limited liability partnership, all partners who are engaged 
in giving investment advice are qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;” 
 
32   Substituted for the word  “networth” by the Securities and Exc hange Board of India (Investment Advisers) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
33 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (f) read as under; 
“whether the applicant, its representatives and partners, if any, are fit and proper persons based on the 
criteria as specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008;” 
 
34 Substituted for the words “body corporate” by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020.

[Page 10]
10 
 
(l) In case an entity incorporated outside India undertakes to provide investment 
advisory services under these regulations, whether, it has set up a subsidiary in 
India and whether such subsidiary has made the application for registration; 
(m) In case a foreign citizen proposes to undertake investment advisory services, 
whether the applicant has set up an  office in India  and proposes to undertake 
investment advisory services through such office; 
35[(n) Whether the applicant is enlisted with a body or body corporate recognised under 
regulation 14: 
Provided  that  the  existing  investment  advisers  shall  be  deemed  to  be  
enlisted  with  such  a  body  or  body corporate from the date of r ecognition of 
such body or body corporate: 
Provided further that the applicant whose application is received before the date 
of recognition of the body or body corporate as provided under regulation 14 and 
who is granted the certificate after the date of r ecognition of such body or body 
corporate shall also be deemed to be enlisted with such a body or body 
corporate.] 
36[Qualification and certification requirement. 
                                                 
35 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 25-07-2024. Prior to substitution, it read as under:   
“(n)Whether the applicant is a member of a recognized body or body corporate as specified under 
regulation 14: 
Provided that the existing investment advisers shall comply with the requirement under this clause in 
such manner as may be specified by the Board.” 
 
36 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, regulation 7 read as under; 
“Qualification and certification requirement. 
7(1) An individual registered as an investment adviser under these regulations and partners and 
representatives of an investment adviser registered under these regulations offering investment advice 
shall have the following minimum qualifications, at all times: 
(a) A professional qualification o r post -graduate degree or post graduate diploma in finance, 
accountancy, business management, commerce, economics, capital market, banking, 
insurance or actuarial science from a university or an institution recognized by the central 
government or any state  government or a recognised foreign university or institution or 
association; or  
(b) A graduate in any discipline with an experience of at least five years in activities relating to 
advice in financial products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio mana gement.  
(2) An individual registered as an investment adviser and partners and representatives of investment 
advisers registered under these regulations offering investment advice shall have, at all times, a 
certification on financial planning or fund or asset or portfolio management or investment advisory 
services:  
(a) from NISM; or 
(b) from any other organization or institution including Financial Planning Standards Board 
India or any recognized stock exchange in India provided that such certification is 
accredited by NISM.: 
Provided that the existing investment advisers seeking registration under these regulations shall ensure 
that their partners and representatives obtain such certification within two years from the date of 
commencement of these regulations:

[Page 11]
11 
 
7. (1) An individual investment adviser or a principal officer of a non -individual 
investment adviser registered as an investment advise r under these regulations  37[or 
persons associated with investment advice] , shall have the following minimum 
qualification, at all times - 
38[(a) A graduate degree or any equivalent educational qualification from a university 
or institution recognized by the  Central Government or any State Government or 
a recognised foreign university or institution or association or CFA Charter from 
the CFA Institute, and  relevant certification from NISM or from any other 
organization or institution accredited by NISM; or] 
(b) 39[***] 
40[(c) A Post Graduate Program in the S ecurities Market (Investment  Advisory) 
from NISM or a Post Graduate Program in Financial Planning from NISM or any 
other program of NISM as may be specified by the Board.] 
  
Provided that [the]41 investment advisers registered under thes e regulations as on 
the date of commencement of these regulations shall ensure that the individual 
investment adviser or principal officer of a non -individual investment adviser 
registered under these regulations and persons associated with investment advi ce 
                                                                                                                                                        
Provided further that fresh certification must be obtained before expiry of the validity of the existing 
certification to ensure continuity in compliance with certification requirements.”  
 
37 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25-11-2025. 
38 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
Prior to its substitution, clause (a) read as under: 
“(a) A professional qualif ication or  graduate degree or  post-graduate degree or post graduate diploma 
(minimum two years in duration) in finance, accountancy, business management, commerce, economics, capital 
market, banking, insurance or actuarial science or other financial services as may be specified from a university 
or an institution recognized by the Central Government or any State Government or a recognised foreign 
university or institution or association  or a professional qualification by completing a Post  Graduate Program 
in the Securities Market (Investment Advisory) from NISM of a duration not less than one year or a professional 
qualification by obtaining a CFA Charter from the CFA Institute;” 
39 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment)  
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. Prior to its omission, clause (b) read as under; 
“An experience of at least five years in ac tivities relating to advice in financial products or securities or fund or 
asset or portfolio management;” 
40 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
Prior to its substitution, clause (c) read as under: 
“Persons associated with investment advice shall, at all times, have a minimum qualification of graduate 
degree in any discipline from a university or institution recognized by the Central Government or any State 
Government or a recognized foreign university or institution:” 
41 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2023, w.e.f. 30-09-2023.

[Page 12]
12 
 
[shall]42 comply with [the]43 qualification and experience requirements within 
[such time as may be specified by the Board]44: 
Provided further that the requirements at clause s (a) 45[***] 46[and (c)] shall not 
apply to such existing individual investment advisers as may be specified by the 
Board. 
47[(2) An individual investment adviser or principal officer of a non -individual 
investment adviser, registered under these regulations, persons associated with 
investment advice, and in case of investment adviser be ing a partnership firm, the 
partners thereof who are engaged in providing investment advice, shall  obtain a 
fresh relevant NISM certification as specified by the Board from time to time 
before expiry of the vali dity of the existing certification or within three years 
from the date of registration certificate , as the case may be, to ensure continuity 
in compliance with certification requirements.] 
  
48[Deposit. 
8. (1) An investment adviser shall maintain a deposit of such sum, as specified by the 
Board from time to time.  
                                                 
42 Inserted by the Secu rities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2023, w.e.f. 30-09-2023. 
43 Substituted for the word “such” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 30-09-2023. 
44 Substituted for the words “three years” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 30-09-2023. 
45 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amen dment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. Prior to its omission, the following words of proviso read as under: 
“and (b)” 
46 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
47 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under; 
“(2) An individual investment adviser or principal officer of a non -individual investment adviser, 
registered under these regulations, persons associated with investment advice, and in case of investment 
adviser being a partnership firm, the partners thereof who are engaged in providing investment advice, 
shall have at all times relevant NISM certification as specified by the Board from time to time:  
Provided that a fresh relevant NISM certification as specified by the Board from time to time shall be 
obtained before expiry of the validity of the existing certification to ensure continuity in compliance with 
certification requirements.” 
48 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. Prior to its substitution, regulation 8 read as under; 
“Networth.8. 
(1) Investment advisers who are non-individuals shall have a net worth of not less than fifty lakh rupees. 
Explanation. —For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  "networth"  means  the  aggregate value  of  paid  up   
share  capital  plus  free  reserves  (excluding  reserves  created  out  of revaluation) reduced by the aggregate 
value ofaccumulated losses, deferred expenditure not   written   off,   including   miscellaneous   expenses   not   
written   off,   and   networth requirement for other services offered by the advisers in accordance with the 
applicable rules and regulations. 
(2)  Investment  advisers  who  are  individuals  shall  have  net  tangible  assets  of  value  not less than five 
lakh rupees: 
Provided that existing investment advisers shall comply with the networth requirement within three years from 
the date of commencement of the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020.”

[Page 13]
13 
 
(2) 49[The deposit shall be maintained in such a form or manner as may be specified by 
the Board.]  
50[(3) Such deposit shall be marked as lien in favour of a body or body corporate 
recognised by the Board for the purpose of administration and supervision of 
investment advisers in accordance with regulation 14 of these regulations: 
Provided that the deposit shall be available for utilization in case the investment adviser 
fails to pay the dues emanating out of arbitration and conciliation proceedings, if any, 
under the Online Dispute Resolution Mechanism or such other mechanism as may be 
specified by the Board.] 
  
Grant of certificate of registration. 
9. The Board on being satisfied that the applicant complies with the requirements 
specified in regulation 6 shall send intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the 
payment of registration 51[***] fees as specified in Second Schedule, grant certificate of 
registration in Form B  52[to an investment adviser or in Form C to a part -time 
investment adviser, as the case may be,] under First Schedule, subject to such terms and 
conditions as the Board may deem fit and appropriate53[:] 
54[Provided that an individual or partnership firm registered as a research analyst may 
be granted certificate of registration as an investment adviser, subject to such terms and 
conditions as the Board may deem fit and appropriate.] 
Period of validity of certificate. 
10. The certificate of registration granted under regulation 9 shall be valid 55[till it is 
suspended or cancelled by the Board.]  
                                                 
49 Substituted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 07-08-2025. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under:  
“The deposit shall be maintained with a scheduled bank marked as lien in favor of a body or body corporate 
recognized by the Board for the purpose of administration and supervision of investment advisers in accordance 
with regulation 14 of these regulations: 
Provided that such deposit shall be available for utilization in case the investment adviser fails to pay dues 
emanating out  of arbitration and conciliation proceedings, if any, under the Online Dispute Resolution 
Mechanism or such other mechanism as may be specified by the Board. ” 
50 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regula tions, 
2025 w.e.f. 07-08-2025. 
51 The words “/renewal” was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of 
Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
52 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
53 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
54 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
55 Substituted for the words “for a period of five years from the date of its issue. ” by the Securities and  
Exchange Board of  India (Change in Conditions of Registration  of Certain Intermediaries ) (A mendment) 
Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.

[Page 14]
14 
 
Renewal of certificate. 
11. 56[The investment adviser which has alrea dy been granted certificate of registration by 
the Board, prior to the comm encement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Change in Conditions of Registration of C ertain Intermediaries)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in 
terms of sub-regulation (1).] 
 
Procedure where registration is refused. 
12. (1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if  the Board is of the 
opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the applicant, it may reject the 
application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the 
applicant within thirty days of such decision. 
(3) Where an application for a certificate is rejected by the Board,  the applicant shall 
forthwith cease to act as an investment adviser: 
Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall affect the liability of the 
applicant towards its existing clients under law. 
Conditions of certificate. 
13. The certificate granted under regulation 9 shall, inter alia, be subject to the following 
conditions:-   
(a) the investment adviser shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these 
regulations;  
(b) the investment adviser shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any 
information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false 
or misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in the 
information already submitted; 
(c) the investment adviser, not being an individual, shall include the word s 
‘investment adviser’ in its name: 
Provided that if the investment advisory service  is being provided by a separately 
identifiable department or division or a subsidiary, then such separately 
                                                                                                                                                        
 
56 Substituted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration  of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution regulation 11 read as 
under: 
“11. (1) Three months before the expiry of the period of validity of the certificate, the investment 
adviser may, if he so desires, make an applicati on in Form A for grant of renewal of certificate of 
registration.  
(2)The application for renewal under sub -regulation (1) shall be dealt with in the same manner as if it 
were an application made under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3 for grant of certificate.”

[Page 15]
15 
 
identifiable department or division or subsidiary shall include  the words 
‘investment adviser’ in its name; 
(d) individuals registered as investment advisers shall use the term ‘investment 
adviser’ in all their correspondences with their clients57[:] 
58[Provided that part -time investment adviser registered under these regul ations 
shall use the term ‘part -time investment adviser’ in all their correspondences with 
their clients.] 
59[(e) individuals registered as investment advisers whose number of clients exceed 
three hundred at any point of time or the fee collected during the  financial year 
exceeds three crore rupees, whichever is earlier shall –  
(i) immediately intimate the Administration and Supervisory Body and initiate 
the process of transition from individual to non -individual investment adviser; 
and  
 (ii) apply for gra nt of in-principle approval for registration as non -individual 
investment adviser within 3 months from the date on which the threshold is 
reached;]  
 60[(f) the in-principle approval for registration under clause (e) shall be valid for a period of 
three months from the date on which such approval is granted, to assist in the transition from 
registration as individual investment adviser to non-individual investment adviser; 
(g) On completion of the transition period or upon grant of certificate of registration as non -
individual investment adviser, whichever is earlier, the investment adviser shall surrender his 
registration as individual investment adviser. 
Explanation. — During the transition period, the investment adviser shall be permitted to on 
board new clients and collect  fees in excess of the threshold limit as given in clause (e) of 
regulation 13;] 
61[(h)] 62[the number of clients of a part-time investment adviser shall not exceed seventy-five 
in total at any point of time.] 
                                                 
57 Substituted for the symbol “;” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
58 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Am endment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
59 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
Prior to its substitution, clause (e) read as under; 
“(e) individuals registered as investment advisers whose number of clients exceed three hundred at any 
point of time or the fee collected during the financial year exceeds three crore rupees, whichever is 
earlier shall –  
(i) apply for grant of in-principle registration as non-individual investment adviser;  
(ii) the in-principle registration shall be valid for a period of three months to assist in the transition 
from registration as individual investment adviser to non-individual investment adviser;  
(iii) on completion of the transition period or upon grant of certificate of registration as non-individual 
investment adviser, whichever is earlier, the investment adviser shall surrender his registration as individual 
investment adviser.” 
60 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025.

[Page 16]
16 
 
63[Recognition of body or body corporate for admi nistration and supervision of 
investment advisers.   
14. (1) The Board may recognize a body or body corporate for the purpose of 
administration and supervision of investment advisers to such extent and on such terms 
and conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
(2) The Board may specify that no person shall act as an investment adviser unless such 
a person is enlisted with the recognized body or body corporate and in such an event, 
the provisions of these regulations and the specified provisions of the bye -laws or 
articles of such a body or body corporate shall apply to the investment adviser.] 
 
 
CHAPTER III 
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
General responsibility. 
15. (1) An investment adviser shall act in a fiduciary capacity towards its clients and 
shall disclose all conflicts of interests as and when they arise. 
(2)  An investment adviser shall not receive any consideration by way of 
remuneration or compensation or in any other form from any person other than the 
client being advised, in respect of the underlying products or securities for which advice 
is provided. 
(3) An investment adviser shall maintain an arms -length relationship between its 
activities as an investment adviser and other activities.  
(4) An investment adviser which is also engaged in a ctivities other than investment 
advisory services shall ensure that its investment advisory services are clearly 
segregated from all its other activities, in the manner as prescribed hereunder. 
(5) An investment adviser shall ensure that in case of any con flict of interest of the 
investment advisory activities with other activities, such conflict of interest shall be 
disclosed to the client.  
                                                                                                                                                        
61 Clause (f) renumbered as (h) by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, 
w.e.f. 25-11-2025. 
62 Inserted by the Securities and Exchang e Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
63 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Amendm ent) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 25-07-2024. Prior to substitution, it read as under:  
“Recognition of body or body corporate for regulation of investment advisers.   
14.(1) The Board may recognize any body or body corporate for the purpose of regulating investment 
advisers. 
(2) The Board may, at the time of recognition of su ch body or body corporate, delegate administration 
and supervision of investment advisers to such body or body corporate on such terms and conditions 
as may be specified by the Board.  
(3) The Board may specify that no person shall act as an investment adv iser unless he is a member of a 
recognized body or body corporate and in such event, provisions of these regulations and byelaws or 
articles of such body or body corporate shall apply mutatis mutandis to such investment advisers.”

[Page 17]
17 
 
(6) An investment adviser shall not divulge any confidential information about its 
client, which has come to its kno wledge, without taking prior permission of its clients, 
except where such disclosures are required to be made in compliance with any law for 
the time being in force. 
(7) An investment advisor shall not enter into transactions on its own account which 
is contrary to its advice given to clients for a period of fifteen days from the day of such 
advice.  
Provided that during the period of such fifteen days, if the investment adviser is of the 
opinion that the situation has changed, then it may enter into such a  transaction on its 
own account after giving such revised assessment to the client at least 24 hours in 
advance of entering into such transaction.  
(8) An investment advisor shall follow Know Your Client procedure as specified by 
the Board from time to time. 
(9) An investment adviser shall abide by Code of Conduct as specified in Third 
Schedule. 
(10) An investment adviser shall not act on its own account, knowingly to sell 
securities or investment products to or purchase securities or investment product from a 
client. 
(11) In case of change in co ntrol of the investment adviser, prior approval from the 
Board shall be taken.  
(12) Investment advisers shall furnish to the Board information and reports as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time. 
64[(13) It shall be the responsibility of the investment adviser to ensure compliance with 
the certification and qualification requirements as specified under Regulation 7 at all 
times.] 
65[(14) An investment adviser who uses Artificial Intelligence tools, irrespective of the 
scale and scenario of adopti on of such tools, for servicing its clients shall be solely 
responsible for the security, confidentiality, integrity of the client data, use of any other 
information or data to arrive at investment advice, investment advice based on output of 
Artificial Intelligence tools and compliance with any law for the time being in force.] 
66[(15) An investment adviser shall ensure compliance with the Investor Charter 
specified by the Board from time to time.] 
                                                 
64 Substituted by the SEBI  (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, sub-regulation (13) read as under; 
“(13) It shall be the responsibility of the Investment Adviser to ensure that its representatives and 
partners, as applicable, comply with the certification and qualification requirements under Regulation 
7 at all times.” 
65 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
66 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Charter) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 10-02-2025.

[Page 18]
18 
 
67[Fees. 
15A. Investment Adviser shall be entitled to charge  fees for providing investment advice 
from a client 68[, including an accredited investor] in the manner as specified by the Board.] 
Risk profiling.  
16. Investment adviser shall ensure that,- 
(a) it obtains from the client, such information as is necessary for the purpose of giving 
investment advice, including the following:- 
(i) age; 
(ii) investment objectives including time for which they wish to stay invested, the 
purposes of the investment ; 
(iii) income details; 
(iv) existing investments/ assets; 
(v) risk appetite/ tolerance; 
(vi) liability/borrowing details. 
(b) it has a process for assessing the risk a client is willing and able to take, including:  
(i) assessing a client’s capacity for absorbing loss;  
(ii) identifying whether client is unwilling or unable to accept the risk of loss of 
capital;  
(iii) appropriately interpreting client responses to questions and not attributing 
inappropriate weight to certain answers. 
(c) where tools are used for risk profiling, it should be ensured that the tools are fit for 
the purpose and any limitations are identified and mitigated;  
(d) any questions or description in any questionnaires used to establis h the risk a client 
is willing and able to take are fair, clear and not misleading, and should ensure that: 
(i) questionnaire is not vague or use double negatives or in a complex language 
that the client may not understand;  
(ii) questionnaire is not structured in a way that it contains leading questions. 
(e) risk profile of the client is communicated to the client after risk assessment is done; 
(f) information provided by clients and their risk assessment is updated periodically. 
Suitability. 
                                                 
67 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
 
68 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021.

[Page 19]
19 
 
17. Investment adviser shall ensure that,-  
(a) All investments on which inve stment advice is provided is appropriate to the risk 
profile of the client; 
(b) It has a documented process for selecting investments based on client’s investment 
objectives and financial situation; 
(c) It understands the nature and risks of products or assets selected for clients; 
(d) It has a reasonable basis for believing that a recommendation or transaction entered 
into:  
(i) meets the client’s investment objectives;  
(ii) is such that the client is able to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with its investment objectives and risk tolerance; 
(iii) is such that the client has the necessary experience and knowledge to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction.  
(e) Whenever a recommendation is given to a client to purchase of a particular 
complex financial product , such recommendation or advice is based upon a 
reasonable assessment that the structure and risk reward profile of financial product 
is consistent with clients experience, knowledge, investment objectives, risk 
appetite and capacity for absorbing loss. 
Disclosures to clients. 
18. (1) An investment adviser shall disclose to a prospective client, all material 
information about itself including its business, disciplinary history, the terms and 
conditions on which it offers advisory services, affiliations with other int ermediaries 
and such other information as is necessary to take an informed decision on whether or 
not to avail its services. 
69[***] 
(4) An investment adviser shall disclose to the client its holding or position, if any, in 
the financial products or securities which are subject matter of advice.  
(5) An investment adviser shall disclose to the client any actual or potential conflicts 
of interest arising from any connection to or association with any issuer of products/ 
                                                 
69 Omitted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to its  
omission, sub-regulation (2) and (3) read as under;  
“(2) An investment adviser shall disclose to its  client, any consideration by way of remuneration or 
compensation or in any other form whatsoever, received or receivable by it or any of its associates or 
subsidiaries for any distribution or execution services in respect of the products or securities for  which 
the investment advice is provided to the client.  
(3) An investment adviser shall, before recommending the services of a stock broker or other 
intermediary to a client, disclose any consideration by way of remuneration or compensation or in any 
other form whatsoever, if any, received or receivable by the investment adviser, if the client desires to 
avail the services of such intermediary.”

[Page 20]
20 
 
securities, including any material info rmation or facts that might compromise its 
objectivity or independence in the carrying on of investment advisory services. 
(6) An investment adviser shall , while making an investment advice, make adequate 
disclosure to the client of all material facts relating to the key features of the products or 
securities, particularly, performance track record. 
(7)  An investment adviser  shall draw the client’s attention to the warnings, 
disclaimers in documents, advertising materials relating to an investment product  which 
it is recommending to the client.  
70[(8) An investment adviser who provides advisory services in respect of products or 
services which are outside the purview of the Board, shall disclose to the client that 
such products or services and his advisory services in respect of such products or 
services are outside the regulatory purview of the Board and no recourse from the 
Board shall be available to such clients for any grievance arising therefrom.  
(9) An investment adviser shall disclose to the client the extent of use of Artificial 
Intelligence tools in providing investment advice.] 
Maintenance of records. 
19. (1)   An investment adviser shall maintain the following records,- 
(a) Know Your Client records of the client; 
(b) Risk profiling and risk assessment of the client; 
(c) Suitability assessment of the advice being provided; 
71[(d) Copies of agreements with clients, incorporating the terms and conditions as 
may be specified by the Board;] 
(e) Investment advice provided, whether written or oral; 
(f) Rationale for arriving at investment advice, duly signed and dated; 
(g) A register or record containing list of the clients 72[along with PAN] , the date 
of advice, nature of the advice, the  73[details of] products/securities in which 
                                                 
70 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
71 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (d) read as under;  
“(d)Copies of agreements with clients, if any;” 
 
72 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
73 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024.

[Page 21]
21 
 
advice was rendered and 74[fee/consideration, if any charged/received for such 
advice]75[;]  
76[(h) Records of communication including emails, call recordings etc. with all 
clients including prospective clients, as may be specified.] 
(2) All records shall be maintained either in physical or electronic form and preserved 
for a minimum period of five years: 
Provided that where records are r equired to be duly signed and are maintained in 
electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed. 
(3) An investment adviser shall conduct yearly audit in respect of compliance with these 
regulations from a member of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India or Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India 77[or Institute of Cost Accountants of India] 78[and submit 
a report of the same as may be specified by the Board]. 
 
79[Website.  
19A. An investment adviser shall maintain a functional website containing such details as 
may be specified by the Board.] 
80[Appointment of compliance officer. 
20.   (1) A non-individual investment adviser shall appoint either:  
(i) a compliance officer; or  
                                                 
74 Substituted for the words and symbol “fee, if any charged for such advice”  by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
75 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
76 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
77 Inserted by the Securi ties and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
78 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
 
79 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board  of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
80 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. Prior to its substitution, regulation 20 read as under; 
“Appointment of compliance officer. 
20.An investment adviser which is a body corporate or a partnership firm shall appoint a compliance  
officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  by the investment adviser in 
respect of the requirements  of the Act, regulations, notifications, guidelines, instructions issued by the 
Board.”

[Page 22]
22 
 
(ii) an independent professional who is a member of Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India or Institute of Co mpany Secretaries of India or Institute of 
Cost Accountants of India or member of any other professional body as may be 
specified by the Board, provided such a professional holds a relevant certification 
from NISM, as may be specified by the Board;  
who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance by the investment adviser in 
respect of the requirements of the Act, regulations, notifications, guidelines, instructions 
issued by the Board.  
(2) Where independent professional referred in sub -regulation (1) of this regulation is 
appointed for monitoring compliance, the principal officer shall submit an undertaking 
to the Board or the body or body corporate recognized under regulation 14 of these 
regulations to the effect that the principal officer shall be  responsible for monitoring the 
compliance in respect of the requirements of the Act, regulations, notifications, 
guidelines, instructions issued by the Board.] 
Redressal of client grievances. 
21. (1) 81[The Investment Adviser shall redress investor grievances promptly but not later 
than twenty -one calendar days from the date of receipt of the grievance and in such 
manner as may be specified by the Board.] 
(2) An investment adviser shall have adequate procedure for expeditious grievance 
redressal. 
(3) Client grievances pertaining to financial products in which investments have been 
made based on investment advice, shall fall within the purview of the regulator of such 
financial product. 
(4) Any dispute between the investment adviser and his client 82[shall be submitted to 
a dispute resolution mechanism that includes mediation and/or conciliation and/or 
arbitration in accordance with the procedure specified by the Board ] or through 
Ombudsman authorized or appointed for the purpose by any regulatory authority, as 
applicable. 
83[Client level segregation of advisory and distribution activities. 
                                                 
81 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance  Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023. Prior to substitution, it reads as, “An investment adviser 
shall redress client grievances promptly.” 
 
82 Substituted for the words “may be resolved through arbitration ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f., 04 -07-2023. 
 
83 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, regulation 22 read as under; 
“Segregation of execution services. 
22 Investment advisers which are banks, NBFCs and body corporate providing distribution  or 
execution services to their clients shall keep their investment advisory services segregated from such 
activities:

[Page 23]
23 
 
22. (1) An individual investment adviser shall not provide distribution services.  
(2)  The family of an individual investment adviser shall not provide distribution 
services to the client advised by the individual investment adviser and no individual 
investment adviser shall provide advice to a client who is receiving distribution services 
from other family members. 
(3) A non-individual investment adviser shall have client level segregation at group 
level for investment advisory and distribution services. 
Explanation. — 
 (i)   The same client cannot be offered both advisory and distribution services within 
the group of the non-individual entity. 
 (ii) A client can either be an advisory client where no distributor considerat ion is 
received at the group level or distribution services client where no advisory fee is 
collected from the client at the group level. 
(iii) ‘Group’ for this purpose shall mean an entity which is a  holding, subsidiary, 
associate, subsidiary of a holding  company to which it is also a subsidiary or an 
investing company or the venturer of the company as per the provisions of Companies 
Act, 2013 for non-individual investment adviser which is a company under the said Act 
and in any other case, an entity which  has a controlling interest or is subject to the 
controlling interest of a non-individual investment adviser. 
(4) Non -individual investment adviser shall maintain an arm’s length relationship 
between its activities as investment adviser and distributor by providing advisory 
services through a separately identifiable department or division. 
(5) Compliance and monitoring process for client segregation at group  or family level 
shall be in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Board.] 
84[Implementation of advice or execution. 
22A. (1) Investment adviser may provide implementation services to the advisory clients in 
securities market:  
Provided that investment advisers shall ensure that no consideration including any 
commission or referral fees, whether embedded or indirect or otherwise, by w hatever 
name called is received; directly or indirectly , at investment adviser’s group or family 
level for the said service, as the case maybe. 
                                                                                                                                                        
Provided that such distribution or execution services can only be offered subject to the 
following: 
(a) The client shall not be under any obligation to avail the distribution or execution services offered 
by the investment adviser.  
(b) The investment adviser shall maintain arms length relations hip between its activities as 
investment adviser and distribution or execution services. 
(c) All fees and charges paid to distribution or execution service providers by the client shall be paid 
directly to the service providers and not through the investment adviser.” 
 
84 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020.

[Page 24]
24 
 
(2)  Investment adviser shall provide implementation services to its advisory clients 
only through direct schemes/products in the securities market. 
(3) Investment adviser or group  or family of investment adviser shall not charge any 
implementation fees from the client.  
(4) The client shall not be under any obligation to avail implementation services offered 
by the investment adviser.] 
 
CHAPTER IV 
INSPECTION 
Board’s right to inspect.  
23. The Board may  suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint  appoint one or 
more persons as inspecting authority to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, 
records and documents relating to investment advisers for any of the following reasons, 
namely: -   
(a) to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained 
by the investment adviser in the manner specified in these regulations;   
(b) to inspect into complaints received from clients or any other person, on any matter 
having a bearing on the activities of the investment adviser;   
(c) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being 
complied with by the investment adviser;   
(d) to inspect into the affairs of a investment adviser, in the interest of the securities 
market or in the interest of investors. 
Notice before inspection.  
24. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 2 3, the Board shall give not less 
than ten days notice to the investment adviser.   
(2)  Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -regulation (1), where the Board is 
satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an 
order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the investment adviser be 
taken up without such notice.   
(3)  During the course of an inspection, the investment adviser against whom the 
inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided in 
regulation 25.   
Obligation of investment adviser on inspection.  
25. (1) It shall be the duty of every investment adviser in respect of whom an inspection 
has been ordered under the regulation 2 3 and any other associate person who is in 
possession of relevant information pe rtaining to conduct and affairs of such investment

[Page 25]
25 
 
adviser, including 85[partners, directors, principal officer and persons associated with 
investment advice], if any, to produce to the inspecting authority such books, accounts 
and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and 
information as the inspecting authority may require for the purposes of inspection.   
(2) It shall be the duty of every investment adviser and any other associate person 
who is in possession of rele vant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the 
investment adviser to give to the inspecting authority all such assistance and shall 
extend all such co -operation as may be required in connection with the inspection and 
shall furnish such informat ion as sought by the inspecting authority in connection with 
the inspection.   
(3) The inspecting authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to 
examine on oath and record the statement of any employees, directors, partners 86[, 
principal officer and persons associated with investment advice ] or person responsible 
for or connected with the activities of investment adviser or any other associate person 
having relevant information pertaining to such investment adviser. 
(4) The inspecting author ity shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to 
obtain authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of investment adviser, from 
any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts. 
Submission of report to the Board. 
26. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection 
submit an inspection report to the Board: 
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, the inspecting authority may submit an 
interim report.   
Action on the inspection report. 
27. The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reasonable 
opportunity of hearing to the investment advisers or its authorized representatives, issue 
such directions as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or  the investors 
including,-  
(a) requiring an investment adviser  87[, partners, directors, principal officer and 
persons associated with investment advice ] not to provide investment advice for a 
particular period;  
(b) requiring the investment adviser to refund any money collected as fees, charges or 
commissions or otherwise to the concerned clients along with the requisite interest. 
                                                 
85 Substituted for the words “ representative of investment adviser ” by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
 
86 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
 
87 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020.

[Page 26]
26 
 
(c) prohibiting the investment adviser 88[, partners, directors, principal officer and 
persons associated with investment advice] from operating in the capital market or 
accessing the capital market for a specified period.  
 
CHAPTER V 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 
Liability for action in case of default. 
28. An investment adviser who - 
(a) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or any regulations or circulars 
issued thereunder; 
(b) fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as an investment adviser 
as required by the Board; 
(c) furnishes to the Board information which is false or misleading in any material 
particular; 
(d) does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board; 
(e) does not co-operate in any enquiry, inspection or investigation conducted by the 
Board; 
(f) fails to resolve the complaints of investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply to 
the Board in this behalf, 
shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. 
 
89[CHAPTER V-A 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
28A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or 
any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding 
                                                 
88 ibid. 
 
89 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of Ind ia (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.

[Page 27]
27 
 
twelve months, for furthering innovation 90[***] relating to test ing new products, processes, 
services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities 
markets. 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub -regulation (1) shall be subject to the 
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to 
be complied with on a continuous basis. 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these  regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a  live 
testing environment where new  products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be 
deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering 
innovation in the securities market , subject to such conditions as may be specified by the 
Board.] 
CHAPTER VI 
MISCELLANEOUS 
Power of the Board to issue clarifications etc. 
29. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these 
regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars. 
Power of the Board over body or body corporate recognized under regulation 14. 
30. The Board reserves the right to alter, modify and overrule any decision, action taken or 
penalties imposed by the body or body corporate recognized under regulation 14. 
 
91[Savings 
30A. Prior  to  the  commencement  of  the Securities   and  Exchange  Board  of  India  
(Investment  Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024, any action taken or purported 
to have been taken or any action that may be taken  against  any  person  in  relation  to  
the  membership  of  the  body  or  body  cor porate  recognised  under regulation  14  
shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  done  or  taken  or  may  be  taken  under  the  
corresponding provisions of these regulations.] 
                                                 
90 The words “in technological aspects”  omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
 
91 Inserted by th e Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 25-07-2024.

[Page 28]
28 
 
FIRST SCHEDULE 
FORM A 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 
92[See Regulation 3] 
93[Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration] 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, C4-A, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  Mumbai 400051 - 
India 
 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1. This form is mea nt for use by the applicant for grant of certificate of registration as an 
investment adviser. 
2. The applicant should complete this form, and submit it, along with all supporting 
documents 94[to the body or body corporate recognised by the Board for the purpo se of 
administration and supervision of investment advisers or] to the Board 95[,if no such body 
or body corporate is recognized.] 
3. This application form should be filled in accordance with these regulations. 
4. The application shall be considered by the Board provided it is complete in all respects. 
5. All answers must be legible and all the pages must be numbered with signature/ stamp on 
each page of the form. 
6. Information which needs to be supplied in more detail may be given on separ ate sheets 
which should be attached to the application form and appropriately numbered. 
7. The application must be signed. 
8. The application must be accompanied by an application fee as specified in the Second 
Schedule to these regulations. 
 
                                                 
92 Substituted for the words “See Regulations 3 and 11” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change 
In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
93 Substituted for the words “Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration/Renewal  as investment 
adviser” by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In Conditions O f Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
94 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
95 Substituted for the words “at its head office at Mumbai”  by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25-11-2025.

[Page 29]
29 
 
1. GENERAL INFORMATION 
(a) Name, address of the registered office, address for correspondence and principal 
place of business, telephone number(s), 96[***] e-mail address of the applicant.  
97[(b)***]. 
(c) Name, direct line number, mobile number 98[, e -mail of the contact pe rson, 
compliance officer and principal officer.] 
(d) Legal structure of applicant - Whether the applicant is an individual  99[ or non -
individual].  
100[(da) Indicate whether the application for the gran t of certificate of registration is 
for part-time investment adviser;  
(db) Whether the applicant is engaged in any other business activity or employment? 
If so, details of such other business activity or employment.] 
(e) Whether the applicant is a bank /NBFC. 
(f) Date and place of incorporation/ establishment, if any. If the applicant is 
incorporated outside India, details of such incorporation. 
(g) Whether the applicant is engaged in investment advisory services prior to making 
application under these regulations.  
(h) Whether the applicant is registered with SEBI, RBI, IRDA or PFRDA in any 
capacity. If so, details of such registration. 
(i) Write-up on the activities of the applicant.  
101[***] 
2. DETAILS OF APPLICANT (Provide details of only the section applicable to you) 
I. In case applicant is an individual: 
                                                 
96 Omitted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
97 Omitted  by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Cha nge in Conditions of Registration  of Certain 
Intermediaries) (A mendment) Reg ulations, 2016 w. e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission sub -para(b) read as 
under: 
“(b) Whether application is for registration/ renewal. Provide registration number if the application  is 
for renewal of certificate.” 
98 Substituted for the words and symbols “and e -mail of the contact person(s) and princ ipal officer” by the 
SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
99Substituted for the words  and symbol “, body corporate (including company), partnership firm or limited 
liability partnership” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
100 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
101 Omitted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to its 
omission, the following words of clause (i) read as under; 
 “For renewal application, provide details of existing investment advisory services including number 
and type of clients, assets under advice, revenue, profitability, products/ securitie s on which investment 
advice was provided, etc.”

[Page 30]
30 
 
102[1. Whether the applicant and persons associated with investment advice 
comply with qualification and certification  requirements under regulation 7 
and applicant has submitted a declaration with respect to the same. 
(Provide self-certified copies of supporting documents).] 
2. Copy of certification obtained in accordance with regulation 7(2). 
103[***] 
104[3. Number of persons associated with investment advice, if any, who shall 
render investment advice under these regulations on behalf of the applicant. 
Provide documents as mentioned in points 1 to 2 above for such persons 
associated with investment advice.] 
4. Enclose identity proof and 105[details of address]  of the applicant  106[and 
persons associated with investment advice]. 
5. Details of ownership/directorship of the applicant in any companies  or 
partnership interest in any firm or limited liability partnership. 
107[***] 
108[8. Where the applicant is employed and has applied for registration as a 
part-time investment adviser, the applicant shall enclose a no objection 
certificate from the employer. In case of change in employment, the applicant 
shall provide no objection certificate from the new employer.] 
 
II. In case applicant is a company: 
                                                 
102 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, clause 1. read as under;  
“Whether the applicant has: 
a. A professional qualification  or post -graduate degree or post graduate diploma in finance, 
accountancy, business management, commerce, economics, capital market, banking, insurance or 
actuarial science from a university or an institution recognized by the Central Government or any 
State Government or a recognised foreign university or institution or association; or  
b.A graduate in any discipline with an experience of at least five years in activities relating to advice in 
financial products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management. 
(Provide self certified copies of supporting documents).” 
103 Omitted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to its  
omission, the following words of clause (2) read as under;  
“If the applicant is  an existing investment adviser applying for fresh registration, then provide a 
declaration stating that it shall obtain such certification within two years from the date of 
commencement of these regulations and submit a copy of the certification to the Bo ard within 15 days 
of receipt of such certification.” 
104 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, clause 3 read as under; 
“3. Number of employees and agents of the applicant,  if any, who shall render investment advice under 
these regulations on behalf of the applicant. Provide documents as mentioned in points (1) to (2) above 
for such employees/ agents.” 
105 Substituted for the words “address proof ” by the SEBI (Investment Advi sers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25-11-2025. 
106 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
107 Omitted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
Prior to omission, it read as under; 
“6. Copy of Income Tax Return/ Copy of Form 16 for the last 3 years. 
7. Copy of assets and liabilities statement” 
108 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024.

[Page 31]
31 
 
1. Shareholding pattern and profile of the directors (Enclose identity proof and 
109[details of address] of the directors). 
2. Number of 110[persons associated with investment advice] who render/ 
propose to render investment advice under these regulations on behalf of 
the applicant.  
111[3. Declaration by the applicant that its principal officer and persons 
associated with investment advice  currently comply with the certification  
112[and qualification under regulation 7].] 
4. Declaration by the applicant that it shall ensure that its 113[principal officer 
and persons associated with investment advice ] comply with the 
certification and qualification requirements under Regulation 7 at all times.  
5. List of associated companies registered with SEBI, RBI, IRDA or PFRDA 
along with the registration number. 
6. If applicant is a bank or NBFC, then copy of approval from RBI for 
undertaking investment advisory services. 
114[***] 
115[8. Enclose identity proof and 116[details of address]  of the applicant, 
principal officer 117[, compliance officer]  and persons associated with 
investment advice.] 
  
III. In case applicant is a partnership firm or a limited liability partnership: 
1. Names and Beneficial ownership pattern of the partners  118[, principal 
officer and persons associated with investment advice] engaged/proposed to 
                                                 
109 Substituted for t he words “address proof ” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25-11-2025. 
110 Substituted for the words “employees and agents of the applicant (hereinafter referred to as 
‘representatives’)” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
111 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, clause 3 read as under; 
“3. Declaration by the applicant that its repre sentatives currently comply with the certification and 
qualification requirements under regulation 7.  
(If the applicant is an existing investment adviser applying for fresh registration, then provide a 
declaration stating that the applicant shall ensure t hat all its representatives obtain such certification 
within two years from the date of commencement of these regulations and after all its representatives 
obtain the certification, a declaration to that effect shall be submitted to SEBI.)”  
112 Substituted for the words and symbols “, qualification and experience requirements under regulation  7” by 
the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
113 Substituted for the word “representatives” by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
114 Omitted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
Prior to omission, clause (7) read as “7. Net worth details.” 
115 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
116 Substituted for the words “address proof ” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25-11-2025. 
117 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
118 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020.

[Page 32]
32 
 
engage in investment advice (Enclose identity proof an d 119[details of 
address]  of the partners  120[, principal officer 121[, compliance officer]  and 
persons associated with investment advice]). 
122[2. Whether the aforesaid principal officer and persons associated with 
investment advice comply with certi fication and qualification requirements 
under regulation 7 and applicant has submitted a declaration with respect to 
the same. 
(Provide self-certified copies of supporting documents).] 
123[3. Copy of certification obtained by the aforesaid principal officer and 
persons associated with investment advice in accordance with regulation 
7(2).] 
4. Declaration that the aforesaid 124[principal officer and persons associated 
with investment advice] shall obtain fresh certification before expiry of the 
validity of the existing certification to ensure continuity in compliance with 
certification requirements.  
125[***] 
 
IV. In case applicant is a body corporate (other than company or limited liability 
partnership): 
1. Shareholding pattern and profile of the directors  126[, principal officer 127[, 
compliance officer]  and persons associated with investment advice ] 
                                                 
119 Substituted for the w ords “address proof ” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25-11-2025. 
120 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
121 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25-11-2025. 
122Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, clause 2. read as under; 
“2.Whether the aforesaid partners have: 
a. A profe ssional qualification or post -graduate degree or post graduate diploma in finance, 
accountancy, business management, commerce, economics, capital market, banking, insurance or 
actuarial science from a university or an institution recognized by the Central Government or any State 
Government or a recognised foreign university or institution or association; or  
b. A graduate in any discipline with an experience of at least five years in activities relating to 
advice in financial products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management.  
    (Provide self certified copies of supporting documents).” 
 
123 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, clause 3. read as under; 
“3.Copy of certification obtained by the aforesaid partners in accordance with regulation 7(2).  
(If the applicant is an existing investment adviser applying for fresh registration, then provide a 
declaration stating that all the partners engaged in investment advice shall obtain such certification 
within two years from the date of commencement of these regulations and after all such partners obtain 
the certification, a declaration to that effect shall be submitted to SEBI.)” 
124 Substituted for the word “partner” by the  SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, 
w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
125 Omitted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
Prior to omission, clause (5) read as “5. Copy of assets and liabilities statement.” 
126 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
127 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025.

[Page 33]
33 
 
(Enclose identity proof and 128[details of address]  of the directors  129[, 
principal officer 130[, compliance officer]  and persons associated with 
investment advice]). 
2. Whether the applicant is set up or established under the laws of the Central 
or State Legislature and whether the applicant is permitted to carry on of 
the activity of an investment adviser (Enclose relevant extr act of the 
relevant Statute/Act). 
3. Number of 131[132[***] persons associated with investment advice ] who 
render/ propose to render investment advice under these regulations on 
behalf of the applicant.  
4. 133[Declaration by the applicant that it s principal officer and persons 
associated with investment advice currently comply with the certification 
and qualification requirements under regulation 7.] 
5. Declaration by the applicant that it shall ensure that its  134[principal officer 
and persons associa ted with investment advice ] comply with the 
certification and qualification requirements under regulation 7 at all times.  
135[***] 
 
3. BUSINESS PLAN 
1. Proposed business plan & means of achieving the same. 
2. The type of products/ securities on which investment advice is proposed to 
be rendered. 
3. Process for risk profiling of the client and for assessing suitability of 
advice.  
136[4. DECLARATION OF NECESSARY INFRASTRUCTURE  
                                                 
128 Substituted for the words “address proof ” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendmen t) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25-11-2025. 
129 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
130 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
131 Substituted for the words “employees and agents of the applicant (hereinafter referred to as 
‘representatives’)” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
132 The words “principal officer and” , omitted by the SEBI (Investmen t Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25-11-2025. 
133Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, clause 4 read as under; 
“4. Declaration by the applicant that i ts representatives currently comply with the certification and 
qualification requirements under regulation 7. 
(If the applicant is an existing investment adviser applying for fresh registration, then provide a 
declaration stating that the applicant shall e nsure that all its representatives obtain such certification 
within two years from the date of commencement of these regulations and after all its representatives 
obtain the certification, a declaration to that effect shall be submitted to SEBI.)”  
134 Substituted for the words “representatives” by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
135 Omitted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
Prior to omission, clause (6) read as “6. Net worth details.” 
136 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
Prior to its substitution, item 4 read as under; 
“ 4. DETAILS OF INFRASTRUCTURE

[Page 34]
34 
 
Declaration that the applicant has the necessary infrastr ucture to effectiv ely 
discharge the activities of an investment adviser.] 
 
137[5. IMPLEMENTATION OF ADVICE OR EXECUTION SERVICES. 
1. Provide a declaration that no consideration including any commissio n or 
referral fees whether embedded or indirect or otherwise by whatever name 
called shall be received directly or indirectly at Investment Adviser’s group or 
family level for the said service, as the case maybe. 
2. If the applicant is a non -individual, whether the applicant proposes to offer 
distribution services.] 
6. OTHER INFORMATION/DECLARATIONS/ REGULATORY ACTIONS 
(a) Details of all settled and pending disputes in the last 5 years. 
(b) Whether any previous application for grant of certificate made by any person d irectly 
or indirectly connected with the applicant has been rejected by the Board; If yes, 
provide details of the same. 
(c) Whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory 
authority against any person directly or indirectly connected with the applicant under 
the Act or the regulations made there under in the last 5 years. If yes, provide details 
of the action. 
(d) Whether the applicant/directors/promoters/ partners  138[, principal officer and persons 
associated with investment advi ce] have been indicted/involved in any economic 
offence in the last 5 years. If yes, provide details of the same. 
(e) 139[***] 
(f) Declaration t hat the applicant, its 140[directors, principal officer , persons associated 
with investment advice] and partners, if any, are fit and proper persons based on the 
criteria as specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; 
(g) Declaration that the applicant shall not obtain any consideration by way of 
                                                                                                                                                        
1. Details of office space, office equipment, furniture and fixtures, communication facilities, research 
capacity, research software for undertaking investment advisory services.  
2. Declaration that the applic ant has the necessary infrastructure to effectively discharge the activities of an 
investment adviser.” 
137 Substituted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30 -09-2020. Prior to 
its substitution, item 5 read as under; 
“EXECUTION SERVICES 
1. If the applicant is a body corporate, whether the applicant proposes to offer distribution or 
execution services to its clients. 
2. If yes, provide a declaration that the services are being offered through a subsidiary/ 
separately identifiable department or division.” 
 
138 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
139 Omitted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025. 
Prior to omission, clause (e) re ad as “(e) A credit report/ score from CIBIL for the applicant.(For applicants 
other than financial institutions & banking companies)” 
140 Substituted for the word “representatives” by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020.

[Page 35]
35 
 
remuneration or compensation or any other form whatsoever, from any person other 
than the client being advised, in respect of the underlying products or secu rities for 
which advice is provided to the client. 
141[(ga) In case of registration as part -time investment adviser, a declaration that it shall 
maintain arms -length relationship between its business activity as investment 
adviser and other business activity  and shall ensure that its business activities as 
investment adviser are clearly segregated from its other business activity or 
employment.] 
(h) Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services to be rendered by 
the applicant. 
7. DECLARATION STATEMENT  
I/We hereby agree and declare that the information supplied in the application, including 
the attachment sheets, is complete and true. 
AND I/ we further agree that, I/we shall notify the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 142[and Investment Adviser Administration and Supervisory Body] immediately any 
change in the information provided in the application. 
I/ We further agree that I/ we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, and the Securities and E xchange Board of India 
(Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013, guidelines/instructions as may be announced by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 
I/ We further agree that as a condition of registration, I/ we shall abide by such 
operational instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India from time to time. 
 
For and on behalf of ____________________________________________________ 
(Name of the applicant) 
Authorized signatory/ Applicant 
(Signature) 
(Date and Place) 
                                                 
141 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024. 
 
142 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 25 -11-2025.

[Page 36]
36 
 
FORM B 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Investment Adviser) Regulations, 2013 
[See regulation 9] 
Certificate of registration as investment adviser 
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), read with the regulations made there under, 
the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to  
_______________________________________________________________  
as an investment adviser s ubject to the conditions specified in the Act and in the regulations 
made thereunder.  
 
II. The Registration Number of the investment adviser is   
IN/IA/_____________.  
Date :  
Place : MUMBAI  
By Order  
Sd/-  
For and on behalf of  
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
 
143[FORM C  
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
(Investment Adviser) Regulations, 2013  
[See regulation 9]  
Certificate of registration as Part-Time Investment Adviser  
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), read with the regulations made there under, the Board hereby 
grants a certificate of registration to ___________________as a part-time investment adviser subject 
to the conditions specified in the Act and in the regulations made thereunder.  
 
II. The Registration Number of the part-time investment adviser is  
                                                 
143 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 16-12-2024.

[Page 37]
37 
 
IN/IA/_____________.  
III. This certificate of registration shall be valid till it is suspended or cancelled by the Board  
 
Date:  
Place: MUMBAI  
By Order  
Sd/-  
For and on behalf of  
Securities and Exchange Board of India]

[Page 38]
38 
 
144[SECOND SCHEDULE  
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 
 
[Regulation 9] 
 
FEES 
1. Every applicant shall pay non -refundable application fees along with the 
application for grant 145[***] of certificate of registration as under: 
a. 146[For individuals and 
firms                                          
₹ 2,000]  
b. 147[For Body Corporate 
including Limited 
Liability Partnerships] 
₹ 10,000  
2. 148[Every applicant shall pay registration fee  at the time of grant  of certificate by 
the Board as under:  
a. For individuals and firms     ₹ 3,000  
                                                 
144 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f 23.05.2014. Prior to its 
substitution, the Second Schedule read as under: 
1. “Every applicant shall pay non -refundable application fees of five thousand rupees along with the 
application for grant or renewal of certificate of registration. 
2. Applicants which are individuals and firms shall pay a sum of te n thousand rupees as registration/ 
renewal fee at the time of grant or renewal of certificate by the Board. 
3. A body corporate shall pay a sum of one lakh rupees as registration/ renewal fee at the time of grant or 
renewal of certificate by the Board. 
4. The fee referred to in paragraph 1, 2 and 3 shall be paid by the applicant within fifteen days from the 
date of receipt of intimation from the Board by a demand draft in favor of 'Securities and Exchange 
Board of India' payable at Mumbai or at respective regional or local office.” 
 
145 The words “or renewal” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
 
146 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 01-04-2021. Prior to 
its substitution, sub-clause (a) read as under: 
“For individuals and firms ₹ 5,000” 
 
147 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 01-04-2021. Prior to 
its substitution, sub-clause (b) read as under: 
“For Body Corporate including Limited Liability Partnerships ₹ 25,000” 
 
148 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 01-04-2021. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (2) read as under: 
“Every applicant shall pay registration fee at the time of grant or renewal of certificate by the Board 
as under:  
a. For individuals and firms ₹ 10,000 
b. For Body Corporate including Limited Liability Partnerships ₹ 5,00,000”

[Page 39]
39 
 
b. For body Corporate including Limited Liability Partnerships    ₹ 15,000] 
3. 149[An investment adviser who has been granted a certificate of registration, to 
keep its registration in force, shall pay fee 150[specified below] every five  years , 
from the date of grant of certificate of registration or from the date of grant of 
certificate of registration granted prior to the commencement of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 , as the case may be, within three 
months before expiry of the period for which fee has been paid151[:]] 
 152[a. For individuals and firms  ₹ 1,000  
b. For Body Corporate including Limited Liability Partnerships ₹ 5,000] 
 
153[4. The fee referred to in paragraph 2 shall be paid by the applicant within fifteen 
days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board by way of direct credit 
into the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or online payment using the 
SEBI Payment Gateway or any other mode as may be specified by the Board from 
time to time.] 
 
THIRD SCHEDULE 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 
[See sub-regulation (9) of regulation 15] 
 
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER 
 
                                                 
149 Inserted by the by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of 
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
 
150 Substituted for the words “prescribed at paragraph 2 above”  by the  SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 01-04-2021. 
 
151 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 202 1, w.e.f. 
01-04-2021. 
 
152 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 01-04-2021. 
 
153 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 01-04-2023. Prior to its substitution, clause (4) read as under: 
*[The fee referred to in par agraph 2 shall be paid by the applicant within fifteen days from the date of 
receipt of intimation from the Board by way of demand draft  in favour of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India' payable at Mumbai or at respective regional or local office. or b y way of direct credit 
in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI.]  
 *[Inserted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of 
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.]

[Page 40]
40 
 
1. Honesty and fairness 
An investment adviser shall act honestly, fairly and in the best interests of its cl ients 
and in the integrity of the market. 
2. Diligence 
An investment adviser shall act with due skill, care and diligence in the best interests 
of its clients and shall ensure that its advice is offered after  thorough analysis and 
taking into account available alternatives. 
3. Capabilities 
An investment adviser shall have and employ effectively appropriate resources and 
procedures which are needed for the efficient performance of its business activities. 
4. Information about clients 
An investment adviser shall seek from its clients, information about their financial 
situation, investment experience and investment objectives relevant to the services to 
be provided and maintain confidentiality of such information.  
5. Information to its clients 
An investment adviser shall  make adequate disclosure s of relevant material 
information while dealing with its clients. 
6. Fair and reasonable charges 
An investment adviser advising a client may charge fee s, subject to any ceiling a s 
may be specified by the Board  154[***]. The investment adviser shall ensure that fees 
charged to the clients is fair and reasonable.   
7. Conflicts of interest 
An investment adviser shall try to avoid conflicts of interest as far as possible and 
when they cannot be avoided, it shall ensure that appropriate disclo sures are made to 
the clients and that the clients are fairly treated. 
8. Compliance 
An investment adviser including its 155[partners, principal officer and persons  
associated with investment advice ] shall comply with all regulatory requirements 
applicable to t he conduct of its business activities so as to promote the best interests 
of clients and the integrity of the market. 
9. Responsibility of senior management 
                                                 
154 The words “if any” was omitted by the SEBI (I nvestment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
30-09-2020. 
 
155 Substituted for the words “representative(s)” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020.

[Page 41]
41 
 
The senior management of a body corporate which is registered as investment adviser 
shall bear primary  responsibility for ensuring the maintenance of appropriate 
standards of conduct and adherence to proper procedures by the body corporate.

[Page 42]
42 
 
Note:  
1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 
2013 were published in the Gazette of India on January 21, 2013 vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2012-13/31/1778. 
 
2. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 
2013 were subsequently amended on, - 
 
a. 23rd May, 2014 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2014 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/03/1089; 
b. 8th December, 2016 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in 
Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Re gulations, 
2016 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2016-17/023; 
c. 17th April, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2020/10; 
d. 3rd July, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Investment 
Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2020/22; 
e. 11th January, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment 
Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2021/04; 
f. 16th March, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment 
Advisers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2021/11; 
g. 3rd August, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment 
Advisers) (Third Amendment) Regulati ons, 2021 vide No SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2021/34; 
h. 3rd August, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2021/30; 
i. 17th January, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in 
Control in Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2023/115; 
j. 07th February, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of 
Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/121; 
k. 3rd July, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute 
Resolution Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD –
NRO/GN/2023/137; 
l. 17th August, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facili tation of 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/146; 
m. 9th October, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment 
Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2023/154; 
n.  26th April, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment 
Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2024/169;

[Page 43]
43 
 
o. 16th December, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment 
Advisers) (Second Amendmen t) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2024/219; 
p. 7th August, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment 
Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/253. 
q. 25th November, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Investment 
Advisers) ( Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 v ide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/278. 
 
 
 
*** 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations]
