[Page 1]
SECURITIES CONTRACTS (REGULATION) (STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING 
CORPORATIONS) REGULATIONS, 2018 
Amended Upto November 22, 2025 
No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/41.- In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 4, 8A and 
31 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, read with sections 11 and 30 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
hereby makes the following regulations to regulate recognition, ownership and governance in 
stock exchanges and clearing corporations and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto, 
namely:— 
CHAPTER I  
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement 
 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges 
and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Gazette of India. 
Definitions 
 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed 
accordingly,- 
 
(a) "Act" means the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); 
(b) "associate" in relation to a person shall include another person: 
(i)  who, directly or indirectly, by himself, or in combination with other 
persons, exercises control over the first person; 
(ii) who holds control of atleast twenty percent of the total voting power of the 
first person; 
(iii) who is a holding company or a subsidiary company of the first person 
(iv) who is a relative of the first person; 
(v) who is a member of a Hindu Undivided Family wherein the first person is 
also a member; 
(vi) such other cases where the Board is of the view that a person shall be 
considered as an associate based on the facts and factors including the 
extent of control, independence, conflict of interest;

[Page 2]
(c) "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under the 
provisions of section 3 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 
of 1992); 
(d) 1["clearing corporation" means an entity that is established to undertake the activity 
of clearing and settlement of trades in securities or other instruments or products that 
are dealt with or traded on a recognized stock exchange and includes a clearing 
house and a limited purpose clearing corporation specified under Chapter IV-A;] 
 
(e)  “clearing member” means a person having clearing rights in any recognized clearing 
corporation and includes a clearing member as defined in clause (ae) of sub-regulation 
(1) of Regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers and 
Sub- Brokers) Regulations, 1992 
 
(f) "company" shall mean a company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
 
2(***) 
 
(h) "control" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (e) of sub- 
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange  Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 or any 
modification thereof; 
 
3[(ha) “debt securities” means corporate bonds, debentures or any other debt instruments 
as may be specified by the Board;] 
4[(hb) “financial year” means the period of twelve months commencing on the first day of 
April every year;] 
 
(i) "governing board" means the board of directors of a recognised stock  exchange or a 
recognised clearing corporation; 
 
5[(j) “key management personnel” shall include: 
 
1 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 08-10-2020. Prior to its substitution, it read as “(d) “clearing corporation" means an entity 
that is established to undertake the activity of clearing and settlement of trades in securities or other instruments or 
products that are dealt with or traded on a recognized stock exchange and includes a clearing house;” 
2  Clause (g) omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 03-10-2018. Prior to its omission, it read as “(g) ”commodity derivatives 
exchange" means a recognized stock exchange which assists, regulates or controls the business of buying, selling or 
dealing in commodity derivatives and option in securities with the prior approval of the Board.”  
3 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 08-10-2020. 
4 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 23-03-2021. 
5 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its substitution, it read as under: 
“(j)"key management personnel" includes a person serving as head of any department or in such senior executive 
position that stands higher in hierarchy to the head(s) of the department(s) in the recognised stock exchange or the 
recognised clearing corporation, or any person who directly reports to chief executive officer or to the director on the

[Page 3]
(i) any person appointed as the managing director or executive director; or 
(ii) a person serving as the head of a department or vertical and directly 
reporting to the managing director or to the directors on the governing board 
of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation; or 
(iii) a person serving as the head of a core function as specified under Part–C of 
Schedule–II of these regulations.; or 
(iv) a person who stands higher in hierarchy to the head of any department(s) 
handling core function(s) in the recognised stock exchange or recognised 
clearing corporation; or 
(v) reporting officials of key management personnel; or 
(vi) any person defined as a “key managerial personnel” under the Companies 
Act, 2013; or 
(vii) any other person who is a key decision making authority at the level of the 
recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation or its direct 
or indirect material subsidiaries, as identified by the managing director or 
its Nomination  and  Remuneration  Committee: 
 
Provided that in the case of a subsidiary of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised 
clearing corporation that is regulated by a financial sector regulator; the norms 
specified by such a regulator may be considered for determining as to whether the 
person at the subsidiary is designated as a key management personnel.] 
 
6[(ja) "limited purpose clearing corporation" means an entity that is established to 
undertake the activity of clearing and settlement of repo transactions;] 
 
(k) "netting" means the determination by clearing corporation of net payment or 
delivery obligations of the clearing members of a recognised clearing corporation by 
setting off or adjustment of the inter- se obligations or claims arising out of buying and 
selling of securities, including the claims and obligations arising out of the 
determination by the clearing corporation or stock exchange, on the insolvency, 
winding-up, liquidation or resolution of any clearing member or trading member or 
client or such other circumstances as  the clearing corporation may specify in its bye-
laws, of the transactions admitted for settlement at a future date, so that only a net claim 
be demanded, or a net obligation be owed; 
 
(l)  "novation" means the act of one or more recognised clearing corporations interposing 
between the parties of every trade, so as to be a legal counterparty; 
 
7 [(ka) “non-independent director" means a director elected or nominated by the 
shareholders who are neither trading members nor clearing members, as the case may 
be, or their associates and agents;] 
 
 
governing board of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, or any person upto two levels 
below the chief executive officer or managing director, or any other person as may be identified by its Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee; 
6 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 08-10-2020. 
7 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.

[Page 4]
(m)  "persons acting in concert" in the context of acquisition or holding of  shares or 
voting rights or control shall mutatis mutandis have the same meaning as assigned to 
it in clause (q) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 
or any amendments thereof; 
 
(n) “public" includes any member or section of the public but does not include any trading 
member or clearing member or their associates and agents; 
 
(o) "public interest director" means an independent director representing the interests of 
investors in securities market and who is not having any association, directly or 
indirectly, which in the opinion of the Board, is in conflict with his role; 
 
8[(oa) “quarter” means the period of three months commencing on the first day of April, 
July, October and January of each financial year;] 
 
(p) "recognised clearing corporation" means a clearing corporation which is recognised by 
the Board under section 4 read with section 8A of the Act; 
 
(q) “recognised stock exchange” means a stock exchange which is recognized by the 
Board under section 4 of the Act. 
 
(r) "regulatory department" means a department of a recognised stock exchange or a 
recognised clearing corporation which is entrusted with regulatory powers and duties 
and includes such department as may be specified by the Board; 
 
9[(ra) “regulatory fee” means fees levied by the Board under these regulations for carrying 
out the functions under the Act and the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (15 of 1992);] 
 
10[11[(rb)] “repo” means an instrument for borrowing by selling debt securities with an 
agreement to repurchase the debt securities on an agreed future date at an agreed price 
which includes interest on funds borrowed; 
 
12 [(rc)] “repo transaction” means a transaction in repo and reverse repo in the debt 
securities that are dealt with or traded on a recognised stock exchange; 
 
 
8 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 23-03-2021. 
9 Ibid. 
10 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 08-10-2020. 
11 Substituted for “(ra)” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 23-03-2021. 
12 Substituted for “(rb)” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 23-03-2021.

[Page 5]
13[(rd)] “reverse repo” means an instrument for lending by purchasing debt securities with 
an agreement to resell the debt securities on an agreed future date at an agreed price 
which includes interest on funds lent;] 
 
(s) "rules" means the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957; 
 
 14[***] 
(u) "trading member" means a person having trading rights in any recognized stock 
exchange and includes a stock broker. 
 
  
(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act, the 
Companies Act, 2013, the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, the Depositories 
Act, 1996 or any rules or regulations made thereunder shall have the same meanings 
respectively assigned to them in those Acts, rules or regulations made thereunder or any 
statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be. 
 
 
CHAPTER II 
 
RECOGNITION OF STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING CORPORATIONS 
Obligation to seek recognition 
 
3. No person shall conduct, organise or assist in organising any stock exchange or clearing 
corporation unless he has obtained recognition from the Board in accordance with the Act, rules 
and these regulations: 
Application for recognition 
 
4. Subject to compliance with the provisions of Act, rules and these regulations, an application 
for recognition as a stock exchange shall be submitted to the Board in Form A as prescribed 
under rule 3 of the rules and an application for recognition as a clearing corporation shall be 
submitted to Board in Form A as specified in Schedule - I of these regulations. 
 
13 Substituted for “(rc)” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 23-03-2021. 
14 Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its omission, the it read as under- 
(t) "shareholder director" means a director who represents the interest of shareholders, and elected or nominated by 
such shareholders who are not trading members or clearing members, as the case may be, or their associates and 
agents;

[Page 6]
Fee for application 
 
5.  An applicant seeking recognition as a stock exchange shall pay the application fee in terms of 
rule 4 of the rules and an applicant seeking recognition as a clearing corporation shall also pay 
the application fee as payable by a stock exchange. 
Documents and particulars for application 
 
6.  An application for recognition as a stock exchange or a clearing corporation, as the case may 
be, shall be accompanied by the copy of the memorandum of association, articles of 
association, bye-laws and other documents as provided in sections 3 and 4 of the Act, rule 5 of 
the rules and these regulations. 
Consideration of grant of recognition 
 
7. (1)  The application under regulation 4 shall be governed by the provisions of the Act, rules 
and these regulations. 
(2) An applicant seeking recognition as a stock exchange or clearing corporation shall comply 
with the following conditions, namely :— 
(a) the applicant is a company limited by shares; 
 
(b) the applicant is demutualised; 
 
(c) the applicant, its directors and its shareholders who hold or intend to hold  shares, 
are fit and proper persons as specified in regulation 20; 
 
(d) the applicant satisfies the requirements relating to the ownership and governance structure 
specified in these regulations; 
 
(e) the applicant satisfies the  networth requirements specified in these regulations; 
 
(f) the applicant satisfies the requisite capability including its financial capacity, functional 
expertise and infrastructure. 
Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-regulation, the term "demutualised" means that the 
ownership and management of the applicant is segregated from the trading rights or clearing 
rights, as the case may be, in terms of these regulations. 
(3)  An applicant seeking recognition as a stock exchange shall, in addition to the conditions as 
specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2), comply with the following conditions, namely:— 
 
(a) the applicant has the necessary infrastructure for the orderly execution of trades; 
 
(b) the applicant has an online screen-based trading system; 
 
(c) the applicant has an online surveillance capability which monitors positions, prices and 
volumes in real time so as to ensure market integrity;

[Page 7]
(d) the applicant has adequate infrastructure to list securities for trading on its platform, 
wherever applicable; 
 
(e) the applicant has necessary capability to have a nationwide network of trading members 
and has adequate facility to admit and regulate its members; 
 
(f) the applicant has made necessary arrangements to establish connectivity with its trading 
members and clearing corporation; 
 
(g) the applicant has adequate Investor Protection Fund and Investor Services Fund; 
 
(h) the applicant has adequate investor grievances redressal mechanism and arbitration 
mechanism to resolve disputes arising out of trades and its settlement; 
 
(i) the applicant has the facility to disseminate information about trades, quantities and quotes 
in real time to at least two information vending networks which are accessible to investors 
in the country; 
 
(j) the applicant has adequate systems' capacity supported by a business continuity plan 
including a disaster recovery site; 
 
(k) the applicant has in its employment, sufficient number of persons having adequate 
professional and other relevant experience; 
 
(l) the business feasibility plan has been appraised by a reputed agency having expertise in 
securities market; and 
 
(m)  any other conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
 
(4)  An applicant seeking recognition as a clearing corporation shall, in addition to the conditions 
as specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2), comply with the following conditions, namely:— 
 
(a) the applicant has necessary infrastructure to ensure timely clearing and settlement of 
trades: 
 
15[Provided that where the applicant is a limited purpose clearing corporation specified 
under Chapter IV-A, compliance with the requirement under this clause may be 
demonstrated by way of outsourcing arrangement(s) with a recognized clearing 
corporation(s), subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to 
time;] 
 
(b) the applicant has adequate risk management mechanism; 
 
(c) the applicant has a settlement procedure including netting, novation and guarantee for 
settlement of trades in place, which is in accordance with the manner specified by the 
Board; 
 
 
15 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 08-10-2020.

[Page 8]
(d) the applicant has the capacity to establish a fund to guarantee settlement of trades; 
 
(e) the applicant has necessary capability to have a wide network of clearing members and 
has adequate facility to admit and regulate its members; 
 
(f) the applicant has established connectivity with the depositories, clearing banks, stock 
exchange and clearing members; 
 
(g) the applicant has adequate systems' capacity for on-line/real time risk management of 
trades cleared and settled and is supported by a suitable business continuity plan including 
a disaster recovery site: 
 
16[Provided that where the applicant is a limited purpose clearing corporation specified 
under Chapter IV-A, compliance with the requirement under this clause may be 
demonstrated by way of outsourcing arrangement(s) with a recognized clearing 
corporation(s), subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to 
time;] 
 
(h) the applicant has in its employment, sufficient number of persons having adequate 
professional and other relevant experience to the satisfaction of the Board; 
 
(i) the applicant has the necessary arrangements in place for resolving disputes and redressal 
of grievances arising out of clearing and settlement of trades; 
 
(j) the applicant has an agreement with a depository and with a recognised stock exchange in 
respect of clearing and settlement of the trades; 
 
(k) the business feasibility plan has been appraised by a reputed agency having expertise in 
securities market; and  
 
(l) any other conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
 
(5)  The Board may, on being satisfied with the capability of the applicant to comply with the 
conditions laid down in this regulation, grant in-principle approval to the applicant which 
shall be valid for a period of one year. 
Provided that the Board may, upon sufficient cause shown by the applicant, extend the 
validity of in-principle approval for a further period not exceeding six months or any other 
period as specified by the Board. 
(6)   An application for recognition shall be made in the manner as specified under PART –D of 
Schedule – II of these regulations. 
 
16 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 08-10-2020.

[Page 9]
Power to make inquiries and call for information 
 
8.   The Board may, before granting recognition to a stock exchange or clearing corporation, 
make inquiries and require such further information or document to be furnished, as it may 
deem necessary. 
Grant of recognition 
 
9. (1) The Board may, after considering the application under regulation 4 and on being satisfied 
that the applicant has complied with the conditions laid down in regulation 7 and is eligible 
to act as a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation, as the case may 
be, grant recognition to the applicant in terms of section 4 of the Act, in the interest of the 
securities market. 
(2) The recognition granted to a stock exchange under sub-regulation (1) shall be in Form B 
of the rules. 
(3) The recognition granted to a clearing corporation shall be in Form B of Schedule-I of these 
regulations. 
(4) The recognised stock exchange and the recognised clearing corporation shall comply with 
such other conditions, including those with regard to the nature of securities to be dealt 
with, as may be imposed by the Board from time to time. 
Period of recognition 
 
10. (1)  The period of recognition granted to a stock exchange shall be as per rule 6 of the rules. 
(2) The recognition granted to a clearing corporation, unless granted on a permanent basis, 
shall be for such period not less than one year as may be specified by the Board. 
 
 
 
 
 
17[Code of conduct for recognised stock exchanges and recognised clearing corporations 
 
17 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 28-08-2023.

[Page 10]
10A.  Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall abide by the 
Code of Conduct as specified under Part-A of Schedule-II of these regulations.] 
 
Regulatory fee 
 
11. 18[(1)   Every recognised stock exchange shall be charged, a regulatory fee payable to the 
Board, at such rates and within such time as is mentioned in sub-regulation (2) and sub-
regulation (3).]  
 
19[(2)  A recognised stock exchange  shall  pay to  the  Board, within  fifteen  days  from  the  end  
of  each month, the amount provided in Part–A of Schedule-III to these regulations on its 
annual turnover for the financial year till the end of that month, after adjusting any regulatory 
fee already paid in that financial year: 
 
Explanation: For  the  purpose  of  this  sub-regulation, the expression “annual turnover” 
shall mean the aggregate  value  of  the  transactions, excluding  turnover  on  agricultural  
commodity  derivatives,  which took place on the recognised stock exchange during the 
relevant financial year: 
 
Provided  that  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  shall also pay, within  fifteen  days  from  
the  end  of  the financial  year, a  flat  regulatory  fee  of  one  lakh  rupees  on the aggregate  
value  of  the  transactions  on agricultural commodity derivatives.] 
 
(3) A recognised stock exchange shall also pay to the Board, within fifteen days form the 
end of each 20[month], an amount equal to ten per cent of the aggregate of listing fees 
collected from the issuers whose securities are listed on it, during that 21[month]: 
 
 
18 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 23-03-2021. Prior to its substitution, it reads as –  
“(1) Every recognised stock exchange shall pay the regulatory fee in terms of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Regulatory Fee on Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006.” 
19 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 10-05-2024. Prior to its substitution, it read as under: 
 
       “(2) A recognised stock exchange shall pay to the Board, based on its annual turnover, an amount specified under 
Part –A of Schedule -III of these regulations within thirty days of the conclusion of the relevant financial year: 
 
Explanation: For the purposes of this sub-regulation, the expression “annual turnover” shall mean the aggregate 
value of the transactions, excluding turnover on agricultural commodity derivatives, which took place on the 
recognised stock exchange during the relevant financial year: 
 
Provided that the recognized stock exchanges shall pay a flat regulatory fee of one lakh rupees on aggregate value 
of the transactions on agricultural commodity derivatives. 
 
20 Substituted for the words “quarter of a financial year” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges 
and Clearing Corporations) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 10-05-2024.   
21 Substituted for the word “quarter” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 10-05-2024.

[Page 11]
22[***] 
 
Explanation:  For the purposes of this sub-regulation, the expression “listing fees” shall 
mean all fees collected by a recognised stock exchange from any company or other entity 
whose securities are listed thereon, towards listing of such securities.” 
 
(4) 23[The fee mentioned in sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3) shall be paid by a 
recognised stock exchange by way of direct credit into the bank account through 
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other 
mode as may be specified by the Board from time to time, and the intimation of 
remittance shall be forwarded along with the statement of computation of the fee.] 
 
(5) The statement of computation of fees mentioned in sub-regulation (4) shall be certified 
to be correct by a chartered accountant. 
 
(6) Every recognised stock exchange shall maintain such registers and furnish such returns 
or information to the Board in respect of its annual turnover, the listing fees collected by 
it and the fee paid or payable under these regulations, as may be specified by the Board. 
 
(7) Without prejudice to sub-regulation (6), a recognised stock exchange shall also be liable 
to furnish such information or explanations to the Board as may be required in respect of 
the regulated functions and the fee paid or payable under this regulation. 
 
(8) Where due to the default of the recognised stock exchange, any fee which was liable to 
be paid under sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3) remains unpaid or is paid 
belatedly or is short-paid, it shall, without prejudice to any other action that may be taken 
under the Act, rules or regulations, pay an interest of fifteen per cent per annum on the 
amount remaining unpaid or belatedly paid or short-paid, for every month of delay or 
part thereof to the Board.] 
 
24[(9)] Every recognised clearing corporation shall pay the regulatory fee as the Board may 
specify. 
  
Renewal of recognition 
 
 
22  Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 10-05-2024. Prior to omission, it read as under: 
“Provided that the fees due under sub-regulation (3) in respect of the last quarter of a financial year may be paid 
within thirty days of conclusion of the quarter, together with the fees due under sub-regulation (2).” 
23 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 01-04-2023. Prior to its substitution, clause (4) read as under- 
“(4)The fee mentioned in sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3) shall be paid by a recognised stock exchange by 
way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or by means 
of a demand draft drawn in favour of “Securities and Exchange Board of India”, payable at Mumbai and the 
intimation of remittance or the demand draft, as applicable, shall be forwarded along with the statement of 
computation of the fee.” 
 
24 Substituted for “(2)” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 23-03-2021.

[Page 12]
12. (1) The provisions of these regulations, as applicable to the grant of recognition to a stock 
exchange, shall in addition to rule 7 of the rules also apply in relation to an application for 
renewal of recognition of a recognised stock exchange. 
(2) A recognised clearing corporation desirous of renewal of recognition shall make an 
application to the Board in Form A of Schedule-I of these regulations and such 
application shall reach the Board atleast three months prior to the date of expiry of the 
recognition. 
(3) The provisions of these regulations, as applicable to the grant of recognition to a clearing 
corporation, shall also apply in relation to an application for renewal of recognition of a recognised 
clearing corporation. 
(4) An applicant seeking renewal of recognition as a stock exchange shall pay fee in terms of rule 
7 of the rules, and an applicant seeking renewal of recognition as a clearing corporation shall also 
pay fee as payable by a stock exchange. 
(5) The recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall comply with the 
applicable conditions specified in sub-regulation (3) and sub-regulation (4) of regulation 7, as the 
case may be, on a continuous basis. 
Withdrawal of recognition 
 
13. The recognition granted to a stock exchange or a clearing corporation may be withdrawn 
in the manner provided under section 5 of the Act. 
CHAPTER III 
 
NETWORTH OF STOCK EXCHANGE AND CLEARING CORPORATION  
 
Net worth requirements 
 
14. (1) Every recognised stock exchange shall have a minimum networth of one hundred crore 
rupees at all times: 
(2)  Every applicant seeking recognition as a clearing corporation under regulation 4 shall 
have a minimum networth of one hundred crore rupees: 
(3) (a) Every recognized clearing corporation, on commencement of operations, shall, on an 
ongoing basis, maintain capital including retained earnings and reserves, as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time, to adequately cover counterparty credit risk, 
business risk, legal and operational risk.  
(b) Every recognized clearing corporation shall hold additional capital to cover costs 
required for orderly wind-down or recovery of operations. 
(c) Every recognized clearing corporation shall maintain, at all times, a minimum net 
worth of one hundred crore rupees or capital as determined under regulation 14(3)(a) and 
14(3)(b), whichever is higher.

[Page 13]
(4) A recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall not distribute 
profits in any manner to its shareholders until the networth specified under sub-
regulations (1), (2) and (3), as the case may be, is achieved. 
(5) Every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall submit an 
audited networth certificate from the statutory auditor on a yearly basis by the thirtieth 
day of September of every year for the preceding financial year. 
Explanation I.—For the purposes of this regulation, 'networth of a stock exchange' means 
the aggregate value of paid up equity share capital plus free reserves (excluding statutory 
funds, benefit funds and reserves created out of revaluation) reduced by the investments 
in businesses, whether related or unrelated, aggregate value of accumulated losses and 
deferred expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous expenses not written off. 
Explanation II.—For the purposes of this regulation, 'networth of a clearing corporation' 
means the aggregate value of its liquid assets calculated in the manner as specified by the 
Board from time to time. 
CHAPTER IV 
 
OWNERSHIP OF STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING CORPORATIONS  
 
Definitions 
 
15. For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(1) "banking company" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (c) of section 
5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949); 
 
(2) "insurance company" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in sub-section (8) of 
section 2 of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938); 
 
(3) "person resident in India" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (v) of 
section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999); 
 
(4) "person resident outside India" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause 
(w) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999). 
(5) “public financial institution” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in sub-section 
(72) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 
General conditions 
 
16. (1)   Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the shareholding or voting rights of any 
person in a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall not 
exceed the limits specified in this Chapter at any point of time. 
(2) The shareholding as specified in this Chapter shall include any instrument owned or 
controlled, directly or indirectly, that provides for entitlement to equity or rights over equity at 
any future date.

[Page 14]
Shareholding in a recognised stock exchange 
 
17. (1) The public holding in a recognised stock exchange shall not be less than fifty one per cent 
of the paid up equity share capital of that recognised stock exchange. 
(2) No person resident in India shall at any time, directly or indirectly, either individually or 
together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent of the 
paid up equity share capital in a recognised stock exchange: 
Provided that,— 
(a) a stock exchange; 
(b) a depository; 
(c) a banking company; 
(d) an insurance company; and 
(e) a public financial institution, 
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with 
persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a 
recognised stock exchange. 
(3) No person resident outside India, directly or indirectly, either individually or together 
with persons acting in concert, shall acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid 
up equity share capital in a recognised stock exchange  
Provided that,- 
(a) a foreign stock exchange; 
(b) a foreign depository; 
(c) a foreign banking company; 
(d) a foreign insurance company;  
(e) a foreign commodity derivatives exchange; and 
(f) a bilateral or multilateral financial institution approved by the Central Government, 
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with 
persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a 
recognised stock exchange. 
Explanation.—For the purposes of this proviso, the persons referred to in clauses (a) to 
(f) shall mean persons recognised/ incorporated outside India. 
(4) Subject to the limits as otherwise prescribed by the Central Government from time to 
time, the combined holding of all persons resident outside India in the paid up equity 
share capital of a recognised stock exchange shall not exceed, at any time, forty-nine per 
cent of its total paid up equity share capital  
(5) No clearing corporation shall hold any right, stake or interest, of whatsoever nature, in 
any recognised stock exchange. 
Shareholding in a recognised clearing corporation 
 
18. (1) The capital structure in a recognized clearing corporation shall be such that atleast fifty 
one percent of its paid up equity share capital shall always be held by one or more 
recognized stock exchange(s):

[Page 15]
Provided that no recognised stock exchange shall, directly or indirectly, either 
individually or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than fifteen 
per cent of the paid up equity share capital in more than one recognised clearing 
corporation. 
(2) No person resident in India, except a recognised stock exchange as permitted in sub- 
regulation (1), shall at any time, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with 
persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent. of the paid up equity 
share capital in a recognised clearing corporation: 
Provided that,— 
(a) a depository; 
(b) a banking company; 
(c) an insurance company; and 
(d) a public financial institution, 
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with 
persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a 
recognised clearing corporation. 
  (3)  No person resident outside India shall, directly or indirectly, either individually or together 
with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid up 
equity share capital in a recognised clearing corporation. 
Provided that,- 
(a) a foreign stock exchange; 
(b) a foreign depository; 
(c) a foreign banking company; 
(d) a foreign insurance company;  
(e) a foreign commodity derivatives exchange; and 
(f)  a bilateral or multilateral financial institution approved by the Central 
Government,  
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with 
persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a 
recognized clearing corporation. 
 Explanation.—For the purposes of this proviso, the persons referred to in clauses (a) to 
(f) shall mean persons recognised/ incorporated outside India. 
  (4)   Subject to the limits as otherwise prescribed by the Central Government from time to 
time, the combined holding of all persons resident outside India in the paid up equity 
share capital of a recognised clearing corporation shall not exceed, at any time, forty-
nine per cent of its total paid up equity share capital.  
Eligibility for acquiring or holding shares 
 
19. (1) No person shall, directly or indirectly, acquire or hold any equity shares or voting rights 
of a recognised stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation unless he is a fit and 
proper person:  
Provided that the onus shall be on the recognised stock exchange/  recognised clearing 
corporation to ensure that all its shareholders are fit and proper persons:

[Page 16]
Provided further that such a requirement to ensure that all its shareholders are fit and 
proper persons shall not be applicable to a 25 [***] recognized stock exchange for 
shareholding of a person who directly or indirectly, acquires or holds less than two 
percent equity shares or voting rights of such 26[***] recognized stock exchange. 
(2) 27[***] 
(3) A person eligible to acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid up equity share 
capital under sub-regulation (2) and (3) of regulation 17 and sub-regulation (2) and (3) 
of regulation 18 may acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid up equity share 
capital of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation only if he has 
obtained prior approval of the Board.  
(4) The application for seeking approval in terms of 28[***] sub-regulation (3) of this 
regulation shall be made to the Board in the manner specified at PART –F of Schedule – 
II of these regulations through the concerned stock exchange / clearing corporation. 
(5) The stock exchange / clearing corporation shall verify the declarations/ undertakings 
given by the shareholders under sub-regulation (4) and forward the application along 
with its recommendation for approval to the Board. 
(6) 29[***] 
(7) Any person holding two per cent. or more of the paid up equity share capital in a 
recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be, shall 
file a declaration within fifteen days from the end of every financial year to the 
recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be, that 
he complies with the fit and proper criteria provided in these regulations. 
 
Monitoring of shareholding limits 
 
19A.The recognised stock exchange / recognised clearing corporation shall put in place a 
monitoring mechanism as specified in Part G of Schedule – II of these regulations to ensure 
compliance with the shareholding conditions specified in these regulations at all times. 
 
25 The word “listed” omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 13.08.2021.  
26 Ibid. 
27  Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 13.08.2021. Prior to its omission, it reads as –  
“(2) Any person who acquires equity shares or voting rights, in a recognised stock exchange or recognized clearing 
corporation, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, that entitles the 
person(s) so acquiring to exercise any voting rights in the range of two percent to five per cent, shall seek approval 
of the Board within fifteen days of such acquisition.” 
28 The words “sub-regulation (2) or” omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 13.08.2021.  
29  Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 13.08.2021. Prior to its omission, it reads as –  
“(6) If approval under sub-regulation (2) is not granted by the Board to any person, such person shall forthwith divest 
his entire shareholding in the recognised stock exchange / recognised clearing corporation.”

[Page 17]
30[Requirement and criteria of fit and proper 
20(1) (a) The ‘fit and proper person’ criteria shall apply to the applicant, recognised stock 
exchange, recognised clearing corporation, its shareholders, directors and key management 
personnel at all times. 
(b) The recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall ensure that all 
its shareholders, directors and key management personnel are fit and proper persons at all 
times.  
 
(2) For the purpose of these regulations, an applicant, a recognised stock exchange or a 
recognised clearing corporation shall be deemed to be a fit and proper person, if - 
(a) such a person has a general reputation and record of fairness and integrity, including but 
not limited to - 
 (i)  financial integrity;  
(ii)  good reputation and character; and 
(iii) honesty; 
(b) such a person has not incurred any of the following disqualifications — 
(i) conviction of the person by a court for any economic offence or an offence of the 
securities laws; 
(ii) an Order for winding up has been passed against the person; 
(iii) the person has been declared insolvent and has not been discharged; 
 
30  Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 23-08-2023. Prior to its substitution, regulation 20 read as under: 
“Requirement and criteria of fit and proper  
20. (1) The recognised stock exchange/ recognised clearing corporation shall ensure that all its directors and key 
management personnel are fit and proper persons at all times. 
 (2) For the purposes of these regulations, a person shall be deemed to be a fit and proper person if— 
(a) such person has a general reputation and record of fairness and integrity, including  but not limited to— 
(i) financial integrity; 
(ii) good reputation and character; and 
(iii) honesty; 
(b) such person has not incurred any of the following disqualifications— 
(i) the person or any of its whole time directors or managing partners, has been convicted by a court 
for any offence involving moral turpitude or any economic offence or any offence against the 
securities laws; 
(ii) an order for winding up has been passed against the person; 
(iii) the person, or any of its whole time directors or managing partners, has been declared insolvent and 
has not been discharged; 
(iv) an order, restraining, prohibiting or debarring the person or any of its whole time directors or 
managing partners, from dealing in securities or from accessing the securities market, has been 
passed by the Board or any other regulatory authority and a period of three years from the date of 
the expiry of the period specified in the order has not elapsed; 
(v) any other order against the person, or any of its whole time directors or managing partners, which 
has a bearing on the securities market, has been passed by the Board or any other regulatory 
authority, and a period of three years from the date of the order has not elapsed; 
(vi) the Board has initiated recovery proceedings under the SEBI Act, 1992 and are pending;  
(vii) the person has been found to be of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction and the finding 
is in force;  
(viii) the person is financially not sound or has been categorized as a  willful defaulter; and 
(ix) any other disqualification as specified by the Board. 
(3) If any question arises on the decision of a recognised stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation as 
to whether a person is a fit and proper person, the Board's decision on such question shall be final.”

[Page 18]
(iv) an Order; restraining, prohibiting or debarring the person, from dealing  in  
securities  or  from  accessing  the securities market, has been passed by the Board and 
a period of three years from the date of the expiry of the period specified in the Order 
has not elapsed; 
(v) any other Order against the person which has a bearing on  the  securities  market,  
has  been  passed  by  the Board and a period of three years from the date of the Order 
has not elapsed: 
Provided that for the purpose of sub-clauses (iv) and (v), any Order passed by the Board, against 
a recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall not affect the operation 
of such recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation unless expressly 
mentioned in the Order.  
(vi) the Board has initiated recovery proceedings under the Act or the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) that are pending; 
(vii) the person is not financially sound or has been categorized as a wilful defaulter; 
and 
(viii) any other disqualification as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
 
(3) For the purpose of these regulations, the shareholders, directors or key management personnel 
of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, shall be deemed to be fit and 
proper if, - 
(a) they fulfil the criteria specified under sub-regulation (2) of this regulation; and  
(b) they have not been found to be of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction and 
have not been declared a fugitive economic offender; and 
(c) they have not been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude. 
 
(4) If any director or key management personnel of a recognised stock exchange or recognised 
clearing corporation is not deemed to be fit and proper under sub-regulation (3), the recognised 
stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall replace such a person within thirty days 
from the date of such disqualification, failing which the fit and proper person criteria may be 
invoked against the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation. 
 
(5) Any disqualification of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation 
under sub-regulation (2) shall not have any bearing on the fit and proper status of the directors or 
key management personnel unless the directors or key management personnel are also found to 
incur the same disqualification in the said matter.  
 
 (6) An order passed against the person by any other regulatory authority may be taken into account 
by the Board while determining the fit and proper person criteria. 
 
(7) If any question arises on the decision of a  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognized clearing 
corporation as to whether a person is a fit and proper person,  the decision of the Board on such 
question  shall be final.] 
 
Disclosure of shareholding 
 
21. 31[(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of the Act, rules and these regulations, the 
recognised stock exchange(s) and the recognised clearing corporation(s) shall disclose 
 
31  Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 30-07-2024. Prior to its substitution, it read as:

[Page 19]
their shareholding pattern on their respective websites on a quarterly basis as per the 
requirements and format specified for listed companies in terms of the provisions of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.] 
 
(2) A recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall monitor and 
ensure compliance with this Chapter at all times. 
Record keeping 
 
22.    In addition to the requirements under other laws in force, a recognised stock exchange and 
recognised clearing corporation shall maintain and preserve all the books, registers, other 
documents and records relating to the issue or transfer of its securities for a period of not 
less than eight years. 
32[CHAPTER IV - A 
LIMITED PURPOSE CLEARING CORPORATION 
 
Applicability  
 
22A. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall only apply to the recognized limited purpose 
clearing corporations. 
  
(2)  All provisions under these regulations, except regulation 18, regulation 31 and 
regulation 38, shall apply to the recognized limited purpose clearing corporation. 
  
Shareholding in a recognised limited purpose clearing corporation 
 
22B. (1) No person resident in India shall at any time, directly or indirectly, either individually 
or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent. of the 
paid-up equity share capital in a limited purpose clearing corporation: 
 
Provided that, — 
(a)  a depository; 
(b)  a banking company; 
(c)  an insurance company;  
(d)  a recognised stock exchange; 
(e)  a recognised clearing corporation;  
 
“(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of the Act, rules and these regulations, the recognised stock 
exchange(s) and the recognised clearing corporation(s) shall disclose to the Board, in the format 
specified by the Board, their shareholding pattern on a quarterly basis within fifteen days from the end 
of each quarter, including therein the following: — 
(a) the names of the ten largest shareholders along with the number and percentage of shares held by 
them; 
(b) the names of the shareholders falling under regulations 17 and 18 who had acquired shares in that 
quarter.” 
32 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 08-10-2020.

[Page 20]
(f) a public financial institution;  
(g)  an asset management company of a mutual fund registered with the Board; and   
(h)   an asset management company of a pension fund registered with the Pension Fund 
Regulatory and Development Authority;  
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with 
persons acting in concert, up to fifteen per cent of the paid- up equity share capital of a 
recognised clearing corporation. 
 
(2)  No person resident outside India shall, directly or indirectly, either individually or 
together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid-
up equity share capital in a recognised clearing corporation. 
 
Provided that, — 
(a)  a foreign stock exchange; 
(b)  a foreign depository; 
(c)  a foreign banking company; 
(d)  a foreign insurance company; 
(e)  a foreign commodity derivatives exchange; and 
(f)  a bilateral or multilateral financial institution approved by the Central Government,  
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with 
persons acting in concert, up to fifteen per cent of the paid-up equity share capital of a 
recognized clearing corporation. 
 
Explanation. — For the purpose of this proviso, the persons referred to in clauses (a) to (f) 
shall mean persons recognised/incorporated outside India. 
 
(3)  Subject to the limits as otherwise prescribed by the Central Government from time 
to time, the combined holding of all persons resident outside India in the paid-up equity 
share capital of a recognised clearing corporation shall not exceed, at any time, forty-nine 
per cent of its total paid up equity share capital. 
 
(4)  The shareholding of persons setting up the limited purpose clearing corporation 
shall be locked-in for a period of five years from the date of grant of recognition by the 
Board. 
 
Composition of the governing board of recognised limited purpose clearing corporation 
 
33[22C. (1) The governing board of a recognized limited purpose clearing corporation shall 
include: 
 
33 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 12.08.2022. Prior to its substitution, it read as:  
*[“The representative of the issuers of debt securities may be appointed on the governing board of the recognized 
limited purpose clearing corporation on a rotational basis and such a director shall be deemed to be a shareholder 
director. 
Explanation. — For the purpose of this sub-regulation, representative of issuers of debt securities during a financial 
year shall be one amongst the top three issuers, which are public sector undertakings, based on their issue size in the 
preceding financial year”.] 
*Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 08-10-2020.

[Page 21]
(a) nominee directors; 
(b) independent directors; 
(c) managing director; and 
(d) such other directors as may be specified by the Reserve Bank of India or the Board 
from time to time. 
 
(2) The representative of the issuers  of  debt  securities  may  be  appointed on  the  
governing board  of the recognized  limited  purpose  clearing  corporation on  a  rotational  
basis and such a director shall be deemed to be a nominee director.] 
 
Explanation. —For the purpose of sub-regulation (2), the representative of the issuers of 
debt securities during a financial year shall be one of the top three issuers, which are public 
sector undertakings, based on their issue size in the preceding financial year.] 
 
Contribution to the Settlement Guarantee Fund 
 
22D. (1) The contribution to the Fund as specified in regulation 37 shall be made by the recognized 
limited purpose clearing corporation, the clearing members 34[, participants] and issuers of 
the debt securities, in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
 
(2) Any shortfall in the Fund, shall be replenished by the recognized limited purpose 
clearing corporation to the threshold level as may be specified by the Board from time to 
time. 
 
Utilization of profits and investments 
 
22E. (1) The utilization of profits and investments by recognized limited purpose clearing 
corporations shall be in accordance with the norms specified by the Board: 
  
 Provided that for the first five years from the date of grant of recognition by the board, there 
shall be no distribution of dividend to the shareholders and the profits of recognized limited 
purpose clearing corporation shall be transferred to the Fund specified in regulation 37. 
 
(2)  The limited purpose clearing corporation shall not carry on any activity whether 
involving deployment of funds or otherwise without the prior approval of the Board: 
 
Provided that the prior approval of the Board shall not be required in case of treasury 
investments if such investments are as per the investment policy approved by the governing 
board of limited purpose clearing corporation. 
 
35[Dispute resolution Mechanism 
 
34  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 24.07.2023. 
35 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 12.08.2022. Prior to its substitution, it read as: 
*[Arbitration Mechanism 
22F. The recognized limited purpose clearing corporation shall have arbitration mechanism for settlement of disputes 
or claims arising out of transactions cleared and settled by it.]  
* Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 08-10-2020.

[Page 22]
22F.  The recognized limited purpose clearing corporation shall put in place a dispute resolution 
mechanism, for settlement of disputes or claims arising out of transactions cleared and 
settled by it, in the manner as specified by the Board in consultation with the Reserve Bank 
of India.] 
 
36[General Provisions 
 
22G. (1) The limited purpose clearing corporation shall ensure compliance with the provisions of 
these regulations as well as directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India. 
 
(2) In cases of different compliance requirements as specified under the provisions of these 
regulations and the directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India, the compliance 
requirements shall be made applicable to the limited purpose clearing corporation after 
consultation with the Reserve Bank of India.] 
 
22H.  In case the limited purpose clearing corporation is required to obtain the prior approval of 
the Board and the Reserve Bank of India, the limited purpose clearing corporation shall 
obtain the prior approval of the Board before seeking approval from the Reserve Bank of 
India.] 
 
 
 
CHAPTER V 
 
GOVERNANCE OF STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING CORPORATIONS 
 
Composition of the governing board 
 
23. (1) The governing board of every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing 
corporation shall include: 
 
(a)  37[non-independent directors]; 
(b) public interest directors; 38[***] 
 
36 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 12.08.2022.  
 
37 Substituted for the words “shareholder directors” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.  
38 The word and symbol “and,” omitted by the  Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 22.12.2025.

[Page 23]
(c)  managing director39[40[;and,]] 
(d)41[executive directors:] 
 
42[Provided that for the purpose of limited purpose clearing corporation, the nominee 
director shall be treated as a 43[non-independent director] and the independent director 
shall be treated as a public interest director.] 
 
(2) Subject to the prior approval of the Board, the chairperson shall be elected by the 
governing board from amongst the public interest directors. 
(3) The number of public interest directors shall not be less than the number of 44[non-
independent directors] on the governing board of a recognised stock exchange and 
recognized Clearing Corporation. 
(4) The managing director 45[and executive directors] shall be included in the category of 
46[non-independent directors] 47[:]  
48[Provided that in case of a limited purpose clearing corporation, the managing director 
49[and executive directors] shall not be included in the category of 50[non-independent 
directors].] 
(5) Any employee of a recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation may 
be appointed on the governing board in addition to the managing director and such 
director shall be deemed to be a 51[non-independent director]. 
 
39  Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 12.08.2022. 
40  Substituted for the symbol “:” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 22.12.2025.  
41  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 22.12.2025. 
42 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 12.08.2022. 
43 Substituted for the words “shareholder directors” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.  
44 Ibid. 
45  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 22.12.2025. 
46 Substituted for the words “shareholder directors” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.  
47  Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 12.08.2022. 
48 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 12.08.2022. 
49  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 22.12.2025. 
50 Substituted for the words “shareholder directors” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.  
51 Ibid.

[Page 24]
(6) No trading member or clearing member or their associates and agents, irrespective of the 
52[recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation] of which they are 
members, shall be on the governing board of any recognised stock exchange or 
recognised clearing corporation. 
(7) For the purposes of sub-regulation (6) above, a  person  who  is  a  director  in  an  entity,  
that  itself  is  a  trading  member  or clearing  member  or  has  associate(s)  as  trading  
member(s)  or  clearing member(s)  shall be deemed to be a clearing member or trading 
member: 
Provided a  person shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  clearing  member  and  /  or trading 
member or their associate for the purpose of sub-regulation (6), if he/she is on the board 
of a public financial institution or bank which is in public sector, or which either has no 
identifiable ultimate promoter, or the   ultimate   promoter   is   in   public   sector   or   
has   well   diversified shareholding , and such Public Financial Institution or Bank or its 
associate is a clearing member and / or trading member:  
Provided further that the independent directors of the associates of Public Financial 
Institution or Bank in public  sector, who  are  clearing  member  and/or  trading member 
and where the majority shareholding is that of such public Financial institution or bank 
in the  public  sector, shall  not  be  deemed  to  be a  clearing  member  and  /  or trading 
member for the purpose of sub-regulation (6). 
(8) The appointment of director shall be subject to the fulfillment of other requirements and 
satisfaction of the Board. 
(9) A recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation, shall monitor and 
ensure the compliance of sub-regulation (6) on continuous basis, to ensure that directors 
appointed, on their governing board, do not get associated with trading member or 
clearing member after approval of appointment. 
(10) The number of public interest directors shall not be less than the number of 53[non-
independent directors] to constitute the quorum for the meeting of the governing board.  
(11) The voting on a resolution in the meeting of the governing board shall be valid only when 
the number of public interest directors that have cast their vote on such resolution is equal 
to more than the number of 54[non-independent directors] who have cast their vote on such 
resolution. 
(12) The casting vote in the meetings of the governing board of a recognised stock exchange 
or a recognised clearing corporation shall be with the chairperson of the governing board. 
 
52 Substituted for the words and symbol “stock exchange / clearing corporation” by the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.  
 
53  Substituted for the words “shareholder directors” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.  
54 Ibid.

[Page 25]
(13) No foreign portfolio investor shall have any representation in the governing board of a 
recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation. 
55[(14) (a) The governing board of the recognised stock exchange and the recognised clearing 
corporation shall 56 [consist of] directors having the requisite qualifications and 
experience in the areas of capital markets, finance and accountancy, legal and regulatory 
practice, technology, risk management and management or administration:  
 
Provided that the governing board of the recognised stock exchange and recognised 
clearing corporation shall 57[consist of] at least one public interest director having the 
requisite qualification and experience in each of the areas of capital markets, finance and 
accountancy, legal and regulatory practice, and technology.  
 
(b) The recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation may also appoint 
directors having qualification and experience in other areas which may be specific to 
them: 
 
Provided that the recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall 
ensure that the governing board collectively 58[consists of] directors with qualifications 
and experience as specified at clause (a) above. 
 
Nominees of the Board on the governing board of a recognised stock exchange and 
recognised clearing corporation. 
 
23A. The Board may appoint one or more persons not exceeding three in  number, as director(s) 
on the governing board of  any recognised  stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation 
and such director(s) shall enjoy the same status and power as the other directors of the 
governing board.] 
 
 
55 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. 
56 Substituted for the words “comprise of” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 23-08-2023. 
57 Ibid 
58 Substituted for the words “comprises of” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 23-08-2023.

[Page 26]
Conditions of appointment of directors 
 
 24. (1) The appointment and re-appointment of all 59[non-independent directors] on the 
governing board of every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing 
corporation shall be with the prior approval of the Board60[:] 
61 [Provided that the non-independent director on the governing board of a 
recognized stock exchange or a recognized clearing corporation may be appointed in 
another recognized stock exchange or a recognized clearing corporation or a 
depository with the prior approval of the Board, only after a cooling-off period as may 
be specified by the governing board of such recognized stock exchange or recognized 
clearing corporation.] 
(2) The public interest directors on the governing board of the recognised stock 
exchange(s) and the recognised clearing corporation(s) shall be 62[appointed with the 
prior approval of ] the Board. 
(3) Public interest directors shall be 63[appointed] for a term of three years, extendable by 
another term of three years, subject to performance review in the manner as may be 
specified by the Board:  
  64[Provided that upon the expiry of the term(s) at the recognized stock exchange or 
the recognized clearing corporation, a public interest director may be appointed with 
the prior approval of the Board for a further term of three years in another recognized 
stock exchange or a recognized clearing corporation or a depository, only after a 
cooling-off period as may be specified by the governing board of such recognized 
stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation: 
Provided further that the cooling-off period would be applicable only in case of 
appointment as a public interest director in a competing recognized stock exchange or 
a recognized clearing corporation:] 
 
59 Substituted for the words “shareholder directors” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.  
60  Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 30-07-2025.  
61 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f 30-07-2025. 
62 Substituted for the words “nominated by” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.  
63 Substituted for the words “nominated” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.  
64  Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f 30-07-2025. Prior to its substitution, the proviso read as under: 
“Provided that post the expiry of term(s) at the recognized stock exchange or the recognized clearing corporation, a 
public interest director may be appointed with the prior approval of for a further term of three years in other recognized 
clearing corporation or recognized stock exchange, or a depository, only after a cooling-off period of one year:

[Page 27]
Provided further that a person may be 65[appointed]  as a public interest director 
for a maximum of three terms across recognized stock exchanges 66[or] recognized 
clearing corporations / depositories, subject to a maximum age limit of seventy five 
years67[:] 
68 [Provided further that in case of a limited purpose clearing corporation, the 
maximum age limit shall be seventy years or as may be specified by the Reserve Bank 
of India or the Board from time to time.] 
 
69[Explanation 1: For the purpose of this sub-regulation, the expression “competing 
recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation” shall be applicable in 
case of appointment of a public interest director from one recognised stock exchange 
to another recognised stock exchange or one recognised clearing corporation to 
another recognised clearing corporation. 
 
Explanation 2:  For the purpose of this sub-regulation, where the recognised clearing 
corporation is a subsidiary of a recognised stock exchange, both the entities shall be 
treated as a single entity.] 
 
(4) A public interest directors on the board of a recognized stock exchange or a recognized 
clearing corporation shall not act simultaneously as director on the board of its 
subsidiary or on the board of any other recognized stock exchange or recognized 
clearing corporation or depository or on the board of subsidiary of such other 
recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation or depository. 
(5) A public interest director on the board of a recognized stock exchange or a recognized 
clearing corporation shall keep its governing board apprised of any conflict of interest, 
which may arise as a result of the public interest director providing services, either 
directly or indirectly, to any company listed or traded on that recognized stock 
exchange, to any trading member or clearing member or their associates and agents 
(6) No public interest director shall become a 70[non-independent directors] unless there 
is a cooling-off period of three years after ceasing to be a public interest director.  
 
65 Substituted for the words “nominated” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.  
66  Substituted for the symbol “/” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.  
67  Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 12.08.2022. 
68 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 12.08.2022. 
69  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f 30-07-2025. 
70 Substituted for the words “shareholder directors” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.

[Page 28]
(7) No public interest director on the board of a recognized stock exchange or a recognized 
clearing corporation, shall become a director on the board of subsidiary of that 
recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation, as the case may be, 
unless there is a cooling-off period of three years after ceasing to be a public interest 
director.  
(8) A public interest director on the board of a recognized stock exchange or a recognized 
clearing corporation shall not act simultaneously as a member on more than five 
committees of that recognized stock exchange or a recognized clearing corporation. 
(9) Public interest directors shall be remunerated only by way of sitting fees as admissible 
to independent directors in the Companies Act, 2013. 
(10) If any issue arises as to whether an assignment or position of a public interest director 
is in conflict with his role, the Board's decision shall be final. 
(11) The application for appointment of Directors shall be made in the manner as specified 
under PART –H of Schedule – II of these regulations. 
 
Appointment 71[,role and responsibilities] of managing director 
 
25. (1) The appointment, renewal of appointment and termination of service of the managing 
director of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall be 
subject to the prior approval of the Board. 
(2)  Every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall, subject to the 
guidelines issued by the Board from time to time, determine the qualification, manner of 
appointment, terms and conditions of appointment and other procedural formalities 
associated with the selection/ appointment of the managing director. 
(3)  The appointment of the managing director shall be for a term not exceeding five years: 
  Provided that post the completion of the first term, the recognized stock exchange or the 
recognized clearing corporation shall conduct the appointment process for appointment of 
the Managing Director afresh:  
Provided further that a person may be appointed as the Managing Director by the 
recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation for a maximum 72[period of 
ten years], subject to a maximum age limit of sixty five years. 
 
(4)  The Managing director of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation 
shall not— 
 
 
71  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 22.12.2025. 
72 Substituted for the words “of two terms not exceeding five years each” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
(Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.

[Page 29]
(a) be a shareholder or an associate of a shareholder of a recognised stock  exchange or 
recognised clearing corporation or shareholder of an associate of a recognised stock 
exchange or recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be; 
 
(b) be a trading member or a clearing member or his associate and agent or shareholder of 
a trading member or clearing member or shareholder of an associate and agent of a 
trading member or a clearing member; or  
(c) hold any position concurrently in the subsidiary of a recognised stock exchange or a 
recognised clearing corporation or in any other entity associated with a recognised stock 
exchange or a recognised clearing corporation: 
Provided that the Managing Director of a recognised stock exchange may be appointed 
on the governing board, but not as managing director, of the subsidiary of a recognised 
stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation.  
73[Provided further that the managing director may, with the prior approval of the 
governing board of the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing 
corporation, be appointed as: 
 
a) non-executive director on the board of a company registered under Section 8 of the 
Companies Act, 2013; 
 
b) non-executive director on the board of an unlisted government company not 
engaged in any commercial activity;  
 
c) chairperson or member (non-executive capacity) of the governing board of an 
educational institution established by the Central Government, the State 
Government, a government company, or a statutory body, or  
 
d) chairperson or member (non-executive capacity) of the governing board of a 
university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act or a State Act.] 
(5)  The Managing Director shall be liable for removal or termination of services by the 
governing board of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation with 
the prior approval of the Board for failure to give effect to the directions, guidelines and 
other orders issued by the Board or the rules, the articles of association, bye-laws and 
regulations of the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation. 
(6)  The Board may suo motu remove or terminate the appointment of the managing director if 
deemed fit in the interest of securities market:  
Provided that no managing director shall be removed unless he has been given a reasonable 
opportunity of being heard. 
 
73  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 22.12.2025.

[Page 30]
(7)  The conditions specified under this regulation for appointment of directors shall be 
applicable to a person holding position as managing director in a stock exchange or a 
clearing corporation on the date of commencement of these regulations. 
Explanation: For the purpose of sub-regulation (7), the applicability shall be determined 
post the completion of the existing term and the prior term(s) completed by a managing 
director on the governing board of a recognized stock exchange or a recognized clearing 
corporation shall also be considered while determining the eligibility. 
(8)  74[The roles and responsibilities of the managing director shall include the following: 
a) management of the whole of the affairs of the recognised stock exchange or the 
recognised clearing corporation; 
 
b) ensure that the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation 
complies with the provisions of all applicable acts, rules and regulations, circulars, 
guidelines or directions issued thereunder from time to time;  
 
c) ensure that the functions under Vertical 1 and Vertical 2 of the recognised stock 
exchange or the recognised clearing corporation, as provided in Part C of Schedule 
II of these regulations, are performed in the interest of the securities market and are 
guided by public interest, without having any revenue-oriented objectives. 
 
d) be responsible for the overall risk management of the recognised stock exchange or 
the recognised clearing corporation; and 
 
e) ensure that the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation has 
adequate infrastructure and systems in place for its efficient functioning at all points 
of time.] 
75[Appointment of executive director 
 
25A.  (1) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall appoint two 
executive directors as key management personnel who shall head Vertical 1 and Vertical 2 
respectively and the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation may, at its 
discretion appoint an executive director to head Vertical 3, as referred to in Part C of Schedule II 
of these regulations. 
(2) The stature of executive directors shall be similar to that of the managing director. 
 
(3) The process of appointment, renewal of appointment and termination of services of the 
executive directors shall be similar to that of the managing director as referred to in sub-
regulations (1), (2), clauses (a) and (b) of (4), (5) and (6) of Regulation 25 of these 
regulations and subject to prior approval of the Board.  
 
74  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 22.12.2025. 
75  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 22.12.2025.

[Page 31]
(4) The tenure and maximum age limit of the executive directors shall be similar to that of the 
managing director as referred to in sub-regulation (3) of Regulation 25 of these regulations.  
 
(5) The executive director of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation 
shall not serve on the board of any other company:  
 
Provided that the executive director of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised 
clearing corporation may, with the prior approval of the governing board of the recognised 
stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation, be appointed on the board of a 
subsidiary of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation. 
 
(6) The roles and responsibilities of executive directors of Vertical 1 and Vertical 2 shall 
include the following: 
 
a) management of whole of the affairs of their respective verticals; 
 
b) ensure that the functions under their respective verticals of the recognised stock 
exchange or the recognised clearing corporation are operating in the interest of 
the securities market and are guided by public interest, without having any 
revenue oriented objectives;  
 
c) the executive director of Vertical 1 shall be responsible to ensure that adequate 
infrastructure and systems are in place for efficient functioning of the recognised 
stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation; and  
 
d) the executive director of Vertical 2 shall be responsible for the overall risk 
management of the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing 
corporation.] 
 
 
76 [Code of Conduct for the governing board, directors, committee members and key 
management personnel]  
 
26. 77[(1) The governing board, directors, committee members and key management personnel of 
a recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall abide by the Code 
of Conduct  specified  under  Part-B  of  Schedule-II  of  these regulations.] 
 
76 Substituted for the words “Code of Conduct for directors and key management personnel” by the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-
08-2023. 
77 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 28-08-2023. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under –  
“(1) Every director of a recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall abide by the Code of 
Conduct specified under Part- A of Schedule- II of these regulations.”

[Page 32]
78[***] 
(3) Every director and key management personnel of a recognised stock exchange and a 
recognised clearing corporation shall be a fit and proper person as described in regulation 
20. 
79[***]  
Compensation and tenure of key management personnel 
 
27. (1) A recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall constitute a 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprising a majority of public interest 
directors and chaired by a public interest director. 
 
(2) The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall determine the compensation of key 
management personnel in terms of a compensation policy. 
 
(3) The compensation policy shall be in accordance with the norms for compensation policy 
specified under PART – I of Schedule – II of these regulations. 
(4) The compensation payable to the managing director shall be as approved by the Board 
and the terms and conditions of the compensation of the managing director shall not be 
changed without prior approval of the Board. 
(5) The compensation given to the key management personnel shall be disclosed in the report 
of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation under section 134 of 
the Companies Act, 2013. 
(6) The report under sub-regulation (5) shall 80[consist of] ratio of compensation paid to 
each key management personnel, vis-a-vis. median of compensation paid to all 
employees of the recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation. 
(7) The tenure of a key management personnel, other than a director, shall be for a fixed 
period, as may be decided by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. 
 
78 Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (2) read as under- 
“(2) Every director and key management personnel of a recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing 
corporation shall abide by the Code of Ethics specified under Part- B of Schedule- II of these regulations.” 
79 Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (4) read as under- 
“(4) The Board may, for any failure by the directors to abide by these regulations or the Code of Conduct or Code of 
Ethics or in case of any conflict of interest, either upon a reference from the recognised stock exchange or the 
recognised clearing corporation or  suo motu,  take appropriate action including removal or termination of the 
appointment of any director, after providing him a reasonable opportunity of being heard.”  
 
80 Substituted for the words “comprise of” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 12.08.2022.

[Page 33]
Explanation: For the purpose of sub-regulation (7), the tenure refers to the period of 
posting as key management personnel in a regulatory department, which shall be for a 
fixed period 
 
81[Segregation of functions 
28. (1) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall identify its 
functions and segregate them into the following verticals: 
(a) Critical Operations; 
(b) Regulatory, Compliance, Risk Management and Investor Grievances; and                                                         
(c) Other functions including business development. 
 
(2) The functions of the verticals under sub-regulation (1) above are provided at Part C of 
Schedule II of these regulations. 
(3) The functions under the verticals as provided at clause (a) and (b) of sub-regulation (1) 
shall be given higher priority in terms of resource allocation by the recognised stock exchange 
and recognised clearing corporation over the functions under the vertical as provided at clause 
(c) of sub-regulation (1). 
 
(4) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall periodically 
and objectively assess the adequacy of resources allocated to the first two verticals as specified 
in sub-regulation (1). 
 
(5) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall adopt a 
"Chinese Wall" policy which separates the functions under vertical as provided at clause (b) 
of sub-regulation (1)  from the functions of other verticals. 
 
(6) The employees referred to in sub-regulation (5) shall not communicate any information 
concerning their activity to any one in other verticals and may be physically segregated from 
employees in other verticals including with  respect  to  access  controls:  
 
Provided that in exceptional circumstances, employees from other verticals may be given 
confidential information on "need to know" basis, under intimation to the compliance officer.] 
 
81 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 28-08-2023. Prior to its substitution regulation 28 read as under- 
“Segregation of regulatory departments 
28.   The recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall segregate its regulatory departments 
from other departments in the manner specified in Part - C of Schedule - II of these regulations.

[Page 34]
Statutory committees 
 
29 (1) Every recognised stock exchange / recognized clearing corporation shall constitute the 
committees as per sub-regulation (2) 82[,] sub-regulation (3) 83[and sub-regulation 3A]. 
 
(2)Functional committee, comprising 84[]: 
(a) 85[Member 86[***] committee 87[and];]  
(b)88[89[*]] 
(c) Nomination and remuneration committee. 
 
(3)Oversight committees, comprising 90[]: 
(a) Standing committee on technology; 
(b) 91[***] 
(c) Regulatory oversight committee; and 
(d) Risk management committee. 
92[(3A) Investment Committee.] 
 
 
82  Substituted for the words “and ” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 28-08-2023. 
83 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. 
84 Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 12-08-2022. Prior to its omission, it read as “of”. 
85 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “(a) Member selection committee;” 
86 The words “and Core Settlement Guarantee Fund”  omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock 
Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 30-07-2024. 
87 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. 
 
88 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its submission, clause(b) read as under- 
*[Grievance redressal committee] 
* The word “investor” omitted by the by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. 
89 Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, it read as “Investor”. 
90 Omitted the word “of ”by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 12-08-2022.. 
91 Omitted fby the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its omission clause (b) read as under- 
“(b) Advisory committee;” 
92 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.

[Page 35]
93[(4) The composition, quorum and functions of the committees under sub-regulation (2), (3) 
and sub-regulation (3A) shall be in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
94[Grievance Redressal Panel 
29A. Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall have Grievance 
Redressal Panel(s) to resolve investor grievances which shall function in the manner as may 
be specified by the Board.] 
Appointment of compliance officer 
 
30. (1)  Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall appoint a 
compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, rules, regulations, or directions 
issued thereunder and for the redressal of investors' grievances. 
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently, report to the Board any 
non- compliance of any provision stated in sub-regulation (1) observed by him. 
95[(3) The compliance officer shall submit a report of any non-compliance of the Act, the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, rules, regulations, circulars or 
directions issued thereunder and for the redressal of investors' grievances, to the Board 
on a quarterly basis in the manner as may be specified by the Board. 
 
 
Appointment of the chief risk officer 
 
30A. (1) Every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall appoint a chief 
risk officer to identify, monitor and initiate necessary steps to mitigate the risk associated 
with the functioning of a  recognised stock exchange or  recognised clearing corporation. 
 
         (2) The chief risk officer shall be responsible for the overall risk management of the 
recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation and submit a report to the 
Board on a half-yearly basis.] 
96[Appointment, role and responsibilities of chief technology officer 
 
 
93 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (4) read as under –  
“(4) The composition, quorum and functions of the committees under sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3) shall 
be in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time.”  
94 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. 
95 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. 
96  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 22.12.2025.

[Page 36]
30B. (1) Every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall appoint a chief 
technology officer to oversee and manage technology-related system design, 
infrastructure, and operations. 
 
(2) The role and responsibilities of the chief technology officer shall include the following:  
 
(a) manage risks in all information technology related functions; 
(b) formulate the information technology policy and the information technology risk 
management framework; and 
(c) resolution and mitigation of observations arising from technology audits. 
 
Appointment, role and responsibilities of chief information security officer 
 
30C. (1) Every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall appoint a 
chief information security officer to assess, identify, and mitigate cybersecurity risks 
associated with the functioning of recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing 
corporation and respond to cybersecurity incidents.  
 
(2) The role and responsibilities of the chief information security officer shall include the 
following:  
 
(a) establish appropriate standards and controls;  
(b) direct the establishment and implementation of processes and procedures as per 
the cybersecurity and cyber resilience policy approved by the governing board of the 
recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation; and  
(c) cyber security initiatives including planning, developing, maintaining, reviewing 
and implementation of Information Security Policies.] 
Contribution to the Settlement Guarantee Fund 
 
31. (1) The contribution to the Fund as specified in regulation 37 shall be made by the recognised 
stock exchange, the recognised clearing corporation and the clearing members, in the 
manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
 
(2)  In case of shortfall in the Fund, the recognised clearing corporation and the recognised 
stock exchange shall replenish the Fund to the threshold level as may be specified by the 
Board from time to time. 
Transfer of penalties 
 
32.  Penalties levied by recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall be 
credited to its Investor Protection Fund or the Fund as specified in regulation 37, as the case 
may be. 
Disclosure and corporate governance norms 
 
33.  (1) The disclosure requirements and corporate governance norms as specified for listed 
companies shall mutatis mutandis apply to a recognised stock exchange and a recognised 
clearing corporation.

[Page 37]
(2) The governing board of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation 
shall confirm compliance of sub-regulation (1) in writing on half yearly basis. 
(3) Recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall disclose resources 
committed towards strengthening regulatory functions and towards ensuring compliance 
with regulatory requirements applicable to the recognised stock exchange or recognised 
clearing corporation, as the case may be, backed by an activity based accounting in the 
report under section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
(4) The fees and charges levied by a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing 
corporation shall be placed for review before the Oversight Committee of such recognised 
stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation. 
97[(5) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall internally 
conduct annual evaluation of its performance and the performance of its statutory 
committees in such a manner as may be specified by the Board. 
 
(6) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall also appoint 
an independent external agency to evaluate its performance and the performance of its 
statutory committees within such periodicity and in such a manner as may be specified by 
the Board. 
 
(7) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall disclose, on 
their website, the agenda and minutes of its governing board meetings pertaining to 
regulatory, compliance, risk management and investor grievance areas, after approval of 
such minutes. 
 
(8) If any director or key management personnel is or becomes aware of any act of 
wrongdoing at the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation and  fails 
to report about it to its governing board  or to the Board, such a person may be liable for 
action under these regulations, after providing him a reasonable opportunity of being 
heard.] 
 
 
97 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.

[Page 38]
CHAPTER VI  
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 
Clearing and settlement of trades 
 
34. Every recognised stock exchange shall, with effect from the date specified by the Board in this 
behalf, use the services of recognised clearing corporation(s) for clearing and settlement of its 
trades. 
Agreement between stock exchange and clearing corporation 
 
35. (1) Subject to provisions of sub-regulation (2), a recognised stock exchange shall avail the 
service of a recognised clearing corporation pursuant to an agreement in writing between 
them stipulating their rights and obligations, the conditions for admission of securities for 
clearing and settlement, risk management measures, charges for clearing and settlement 
and other incidental and consequential matters. 
98[Provided that in case a recognised stock exchange enters into an arrangement with more 
than one recognised clearing corporation, it shall enter into a multipartite agreement in 
writing with such recognised clearing corporations to ensure interoperability among the 
clearing corporations.] 
(2) The recognised stock exchange shall extend its arbitration mechanism for settlement of 
disputes or claims arising out of clearing and settlement of trades executed on such stock 
exchange. 
Admission of securities for clearing and settlement 
 
36. (1) A recognised clearing corporation shall seek approval of the Board before extending its 
services to any segment of a recognised stock exchange and before admitting any securities 
for clearing and settlement. 
(2) A recognized stock exchange shall not introduce any new segment without the prior 
approval of the Board. 
Fund to guarantee settlement of trades 
 
37. (1) Every recognised clearing corporation shall establish and maintain a Fund by whatever 
name called, for each segment, to guarantee the settlement of trades executed in respective 
segment of a recognised stock exchange: 
99[***] 
 
98 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019.  
99 Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, the proviso read as:

[Page 39]
(2) In the event of a clearing member 100[or a participant] failing to honour his settlement 
obligations, the Fund shall be utilized to complete the settlement. 
(3) The corpus of the Fund shall be adequate to meet the settlement obligations arising on 
account of failure of clearing member(s) 101[or participant(s)]. 
(4) The sufficiency of the corpus of the Fund shall be tested by way of periodic stress tests, in 
the manner specified by the Board. 
(5) The utilization of the Fund shall be in accordance with the norms specified by the Board. 
Utilization of profits and investments 
 
38. (1)The utilization of profits and investments by recognised clearing corporations shall be in 
accordance with the norms specified by the Board. 
(2) The recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation shall not carry on any 
activity whether involving deployment of funds or otherwise without prior approval of the 
Board:  
Provided that prior approval of the Board shall not be required in case of treasury 
investments if such investments are as per the investment policy approved by the 
governing board of recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation; 
Provided further, that the recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation 
may engage in activities whether involving deployment of funds or otherwise that are 
unrelated or not incidental to its activity as a stock exchange or clearing corporation, as the 
case may be, 102[*] through a separate legal entity and subject to approval of the Board. 
 
103[(3) An employee of a recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall 
not simultaneously be an employee of any other company where the recognised stock 
exchange or recognised clearing corporation has invested. 
 
(4) A director, committee member or employee of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised 
clearing corporation shall not receive any compensation or any other financial benefit from 
the companies where the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation has 
invested, other than fees and expenses related to the governing board and committee 
meetings.] 
 
 “Provided that in case a recognised stock exchange enters into an arrangement with more than one recognised 
clearing corporation, it shall enter into a multipartite agreement in writing with such recognised clearing 
corporations to ensure interoperability among the clearing corporations.”  
100  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 24.07.2023. 
101  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 24.07.2023. 
102 Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, it read as “except”. 
103 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.

[Page 40]
104[Administration of specified intermediaries  
 
38A.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these  regulations,  with  the  approval  of  the  Board,  
the activities  of administration  and  supervision  over  specified  intermediaries  may  be  
carried  out  by recognised stock exchange on such terms and conditions and to such an extent 
as may be specified.] 
105[Verification of risk-return metrics 
38B. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, the activity of a Past Risk and Return 
Verification Agency Data Centre as referred to in sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 12A of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999, may be 
carried out by a recognised stock exchange, with the approval of the Board, on such terms and 
conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
Equal, fair and transparent access 
 
39. (1) The recognised clearing corporation shall lay down a policy framework for ensuring that 
there is no discrimination while rendering clearing and settlement services in settlement 
of trades executed on shareholder stock exchange(s) and executed on non-shareholder 
stock exchange(s). 
(2)The framework under sub-regulation (1) shall be made available on the website of the 
clearing corporation and shall provide the basis on which access to clearing and settlement 
services of the clearing corporation has been provided to a shareholder stock exchange(s) 
along-with the manner in which the said requirements should be complied by a non-
shareholder stock exchange(s) to obtain access to clearing and settlement services. 
(3)The recognised clearing corporation and recognised stock exchange shall ensure equal, 
unrestricted, transparent and fair access to all persons without any bias towards its 
associates and related entities. 
(4)If any issue arises in rendering non-discriminatory access to services of a recognized 
clearing corporation, the Board's decision shall be final. 
106[Information and Data Sharing Policy 
 
39A. (1) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation and the 
company where the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation has 
 
104 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 26-04-2024.  
105 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 21-03-2025. 
106 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.

[Page 41]
invested shall lay down a framework for sharing and monitoring of data, including 
confidential and sensitive data. 
(2) The policy framework shall contain: - 
(a) means and manner of data sharing; 
(b) types of data that can be shared; 
(c)  escalation matrix for data sharing; 
(d) provisions to have a digital database for recording details of information shared 
along with recipients and reasons for sharing, etc.; 
(e) mechanism to monitor the data shared, through use of technology, including 
periodic audits to ensure compliance with the policy framework; and 
(f) accountability mechanism including fixing individual accountabilities for any 
breach of data sharing policy.] 
 
107[Responsibility for the use of artificial intelligence 
 
39B. A recognized stock exchange and a recognized clearing corporation which uses artificial 
intelligence and machine learning  tools  and  techniques, either  designed  by  it  or  procured  
from  third-party  technology  service  providers, irrespective of the scale and scenario of 
adoption of such tools for conducting its business and servicing its clients or constituents, 
shall be solely responsible– 
 
a) for the privacy, security and integrity of investors’ and stakeholders’ data including data 
maintained by it in a fiduciary capacity throughout the processes involved; 
 
b) for the output arising from the usage of such tools and techniques it relies upon or deals with, 
and 
 
c) for the compliance with applicable laws in force. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, the expression “artificial intelligence and 
machine learning tools and techniques” may include any application or software program or 
executable system or a combination thereof, offered by a recognized stock exchange or a 
recognized clearing corporation to investors/stakeholders or used internally by it to  facilitate  
trading  and  settlement or  to carry  out  its  activities  including  compliance  requirements  
and  the  same are portrayed as part of the products offered to the public or under usage for 
compliance or management or other business purposes.] 
 
 
107 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 10-02-2025.

[Page 42]
Maintenance of books of accounts and records 
 
40. 108[(1) Every recognised stock exchange shall maintain and preserve the following books 
of account and documents for a minimum period of eight years, namely: - 
(a) Minute books of the meetings of— 
(i) members; 
(ii) governing body; 
(iii) any standing committee or committees of the governing body or of the 
general body of members. 
(b) Register of members showing their full names and addresses and where any 
member of the stock exchange is a firm, full names and addresses of all partners. 
(c) Register of authorised clerks. 
(d) Register of remisiers of authorised assistants. 
(e) Record of security deposits. 
(f) Margin deposits book. 
(g) Ledgers. 
(h) Journals. 
(i) Cash book. 
(j) Bank pass-book. 
(k) Such other books of accounts and documents as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time.] 
 (2) Subject to the provisions of any other law for the time being in force, every recognised 
clearing corporation shall maintain and preserve the following books of account and 
documents for a minimum period of eight years, namely:-  
(a) Minute books of the meetings of:  
      (i) governing board; 
      (ii) any committees of the governing board; 
(b) Record of clearing members showing their full names, addresses and details of 
bank and depository accounts for settlement purposes; 
(c) Transaction records; 
(d) Record of security deposits; 
(e) Margin deposits book; 
(f) Client margin collection details; 
(g) Ledgers; 
(h) Journals; 
(i) Cash book; 
(j) Bank account statement; 
 
108 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its submission, sub-regulation (1) read as under –  
“(1)Every recognised stock exchange shall maintain and preserve the books of account and documents as per rule 
14 of the rules.”

[Page 43]
(k) Such other books of accounts and documents as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time. 
 
Submission of annual financial statements and returns 
 
41. (1) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall furnish to the 
Board its annual financial statements and returns as per rule 17 and 17A of the rules. 
(2) The records as per sub-regulation (1) with respect to the preceding financial year shall be 
furnished to the Board by the thirtieth of September of every year. 
Bye-laws and rules of stock exchanges and clearing corporation 
 
42. (1) A recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall, with the prior 
approval of the Board, make bye-laws for the regulation of contracts and clearing and 
settlement, as the case may be, as per section 9 of the Act and these regulations. 
(2) No memorandum of association, articles of association or any other constitution 
document, in so far as they relate to matters specified in section 3 of the Act or under these 
regulations and bye- laws of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing 
corporation, shall be amended except with prior approval of the Board. 
(3) The Bye-laws of the clearing corporation and procedure for submitting amendments to 
Articles/Rules/Bye-laws [*] 109, etc., of a recognised stock exchange/ recognized clearing 
corporation for approval of the Board shall be made in the manner as specified under PART 
– E of Schedule – II of these regulations. 
 
Settlement and netting 
 
43. (1) The payment and settlement in respect of a transaction in a recognized stock exchange 
and recognized clearing corporation shall be determined in accordance with the netting or 
gross procedure as specified in the bye-laws of such recognized stock exchange and 
recognized clearing corporation, with the prior approval of the Board 
(2) Payment and settlement in respect of a transaction between parties referred to in sub- 
regulation (1), effected under the bye-laws of a recognized stock exchange or recognized 
clearing corporation, shall be final, irrevocable and binding on such parties. 
 
(3) When a settlement has become final and irrevocable, the right of the recognized stock 
exchange or the recognized clearing corporation, as the case may be, to appropriate any 
collaterals or deposits or margins contributed by the trading member, clearing member or 
client towards its settlement or other obligations in accordance with the bye-laws of the 
recognised stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation shall take priority over any 
 
109 Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, it read as “/Regulations”

[Page 44]
other liability of or claim against the said trading member, clearing member or client, as 
the case may be.  
Explanation. - For removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the settlement, whether 
gross or net, referred to in this regulation is final and irrevocable as soon as the money, 
securities or other transactions payable as a result of such settlement is determined, 
whether or not such money, securities or other transactions is actually paid.  
110[Obligation of Clearing Corporation in Commodity Derivatives 
 
43A. Every recognized Clearing Corporation providing clearing and settlement services for  
commodity  derivatives  shall  ensure  guarantee  for  settlement  of  trades  including good 
delivery. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “good delivery” shall mean the delivery of 
goods that is in proper form to transfer title and is of the quality and quantity as per contract 
specifications of the concerned exchange.] 
 
 
Right of Clearing Corporation 
 
44. The right of a recognised clearing corporation(s) to recover the dues from its clearing 
members, arising from the discharge of their clearing and settlement functions, from the 
collaterals, deposits and the assets of the clearing members, shall have priority over any other 
liability of or claim against the clearing members. 
111[Orderly Winding Down 
44A (1) Every clearing corporation shall devise and maintain a framework for orderly winding down 
of its critical operations and services covering both voluntary and involuntary scenarios. 
 
(2) Every clearing corporation shall ensure that the framework provides for:- 
a. the timely and orderly settlement or cessation or transfer of position(s), and/ or;  
b. the transfer of the collateral(s) or deposit(s) or margin(s) or any other asset(s) of the 
members to another recognized clearing corporation that would take over the operations 
of the clearing corporation, and/or; 
c. such other related matter. 
(3) The framework referred to in sub-regulation (1) above, shall be in accordance with the 
guidelines specified by the Board in this regard from time to time.] 
 
112[CHAPTER VIA 
 
110 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.r.e.f. 03-10-2018.  
111  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022.  
112  Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 29-08-2024.

[Page 45]
RESTRICTION IN DEALING WITH UNREGULATED ENTITIES 
Restriction in having association with certain persons 
44B. (1) No recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation or their agent, shall 
have any direct or indirect association, with another person who- 
(i) provides advice or any recommendation, directly or indirectly, in respect of or related 
to a security or securities, unless the person is registered with or otherwise permitted by 
the Board to provide such advice or recommendation; or 
(ii) makes any claim, of returns or performance expressly or impliedly, in respect of or 
related to a security or securities, unless the person has been permitted by the Board to 
make such a claim: 
     Provided that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not apply in respect of an 
association through a specified digital platform. 
  
(2) The recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation shall ensure that any 
person associated with them or their agent does not engage in the activities mentioned in 
clauses (i) or (ii) of sub-regulation (1) without the necessary permission. 
 
Explanation 1. – For the purposes of this regulation, the expression “association” shall mean- 
(a) a transaction involving money or money’s worth; 
(b) referral of a client; 
(c) interaction of information technology systems;  
(d) any other association of a similar nature or character. 
  
Explanation 2. – For the purposes of this regulation, the expression “specified digital 
platform” shall mean a digital platform as specified by the Board, which has a mechanism 
in place to take preventive as well as curative action, to the satisfaction of the Board, to 
ensure that such a platform is not used for indulging in any activity as referred to in clause 
(i) or (ii) of sub-regulation (1). 
  
Explanation 3. – For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that the term “another person” in 
this regulation shall not include a person who is engaged in investor education, provided that 
such a person does not, directly or indirectly, indulge in any activity as referred to in clause 
(i) or (ii) of sub-regulation (1) without the necessary permission. 
44C.The Board may, in case of violation of any of the provisions of regulation 44B, take such 
action as it may deem fit including action as provided under regulation 49.]

[Page 46]
CHAPTER VII 
LISTING OF SECURITIES 
Listing 
 
45. (1) Subject to the provisions of the applicable laws in force, a recognised stock exchange may 
apply for listing of its securities on any recognised stock exchange, other than itself and its 
associated stock exchange, if,— 
(a)  it is compliant with the provisions of these regulations particularly those relating to 
ownership and governance; 
 
(b) it has completed three years of continuous trading operations immediately preceding 
the date of application of listing; and 
 
(c) it has obtained approval of the Board: 
 
Provided the Board may specify such conditions as it may deem fit in the interest of 
the securities market including those in relation to transfer of shares held by any 
person. 
 
(2) A recognised stock exchange shall not list any securities of its associates.  
(3) The securities of a recognised clearing corporation shall not be listed on any stock 
exchange. 
 
Dematerialization 
 
46. Securities of a recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall be in 
dematerialised form. 
 
 
 
CHAPTER VIII 
 
INSPECTION, ENQUIRIES AND ENFORCEMENT 
 
Power to call for information 
 
47. The Board may from time to time call for any information, documents or records from the 
recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation, or their governing board 
or any shareholder thereof. 
Power of inspection 
 
48. (1) The Board may at any time undertake inspection, conduct inquiries and audit of any 
recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, any associate of such

[Page 47]
exchange or clearing corporation, any shareholder of such stock exchange or clearing 
corporation or any associate and agent of such shareholder. 
(2) Where an inspection under sub-regulation (1) is undertaken by the Board, such recognised 
stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation or shareholder or associate and every 
manager, director, managing director, chairperson or officer and other employee of such 
recognised stock exchange, recognised clearing corporation, shareholder or associate shall 
cooperate with the Board. 
113[Power to issue directions and levy penalty]  
 
49. (1)Without prejudice to the exercise of its powers under the provisions of the Act or the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and rules and regulations made thereunder, 
the Board may, either  suo motu or on receipt of any information or during pendency of any 
inspection, inquiry or investigation or on completion thereof, in the interest of public or trade 
or investors or the securities market, issue such directions as it deems fit, including but not 
limited to any or all of the following:— 
(a)  directing a person holding equity shares or rights over equity shares in a recognised 
stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation in contravention of these regulations 
to divest his holding, in such manner as may be provided in the direction; 
 
(b) directing transfer of any proceeds or securities to the Investor Protection Fund of a 
recognised stock exchange or Settlement Guarantee Fund of a recognised clearing 
corporation; 
 
(c)  debarring any recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, any 
shareholder of such recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, or 
any associate and agent of such shareholder, or any transferee of shares from such 
shareholder, directors and key management personnel of recognised stock exchange 
and recognised clearing corporation from accessing the securities market or dealing in 
securities for such period as may be determined by the Board.] 
 
114[(2) The Board may take action against a recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing 
corporation, director, committee member, key management personnel, employee or any 
other person associated with the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing 
corporation, for any contravention or abetting the contravention of these regulations, 
including the Code of Conduct specified under these regulations, the provisions of the Act, 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, any rules or regulations framed 
thereunder and any circulars or directions issued by the Board, either upon a reference or 
suo motu, as it deems fit, including but not limited to any or all of the following:— 
 
(a) debarring a recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation from 
introducing new products and services and restricting its existing activities, products 
and services. 
 
113 Substituted for the heading “Directions by the Board” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges 
and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.  
114 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.

[Page 48]
(b) imposing such monetary penalty as may be determined by the Board, on the 
recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, directors, committee 
members, key management personnel, employees or any other person associated with 
the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation. 
 
(c) restricting any such person to attend meetings or otherwise participate or involve 
themselves in the functioning of the recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing 
corporation. 
 
Explanation– For the removal of any doubt, it is clarified that the power of the Board to 
take appropriate action under sub-regulation (2) is without prejudice to the exercise of 
its powers under the provisions of the Act, or the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India Act, 1992 and the rules and regulations made thereunder: 
 
Provided that the Board while taking action under clauses (a) and (b) above shall have 
due regard to the factors, including but not limited to any or all of the following:—    
(i) a mala fide intent; or  
(ii) an act of commission or an act of omission; or 
(iii) negligence, or  
(iv) repeated instances of genuine decision making that went wrong. 
     
(3) While adjudging the quantum of monetary penalty under the Act, or the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, the Board shall have due regard to the factors, 
including but not limited to any or all of the following:—  
 
(a)  the amount of disproportionate gain or unfair advantage, wherever quantifiable, 
made as a result of the default;  
(b) the amount of loss caused to the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing 
corporation or the securities market as a result of the default; and 
(c) the repetitive nature of the default.]  
 
115[CHAPTER VIII-A 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
 
49A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any 
of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve 
months, for furthering innovation 116[***] relating to testing new products, processes, services, 
business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets. 
 
 
115 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.  
116 The words “in technological aspects” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021.

[Page 49]
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant 
satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied 
with on a continuous basis. 
 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live testing 
environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on 
a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the 
securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
 
CHAPTER IX 
MISCELLANEOUS 
Power to remove difficulties 
 
50.  In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of 
these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes 
or circulars. 
117[Power to relax the strict enforcement of the regulations. 
 
50A (1) The Board may suo motu or upon an application made by a recognised stock exchange 
or recognised clearing corporation, for reasons recorded in writing, grant relaxation from the 
strict compliance of any of the provisions of these regulations subject to such conditions as 
the  Board  deems  fit  to  impose  in  the  interests  of  investors in securities and the securities 
market, if the Board is satisfied that: 
(a) the non-compliance is caused due to factors beyond the control of the entity; or 
(b) the requirement is procedural or technical in nature. 
 
(2) The recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation making an application 
referred to under sub-regulation (1) shall pay a non-refundable fee of rupees one lakh 
payable by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/ RTGS/ IMPS or online 
payment using the SEBI payment gateway or any other mode as may be specified by the 
Board from time to time.] 
 
Power to specify procedures and issue clarifications 
 
51. For the purposes of implementation of these regulations and matters incidental thereto, the 
Board may specify norms, procedures, processes, manners or guidelines as specified in these 
regulations, by way of circulars to recognised stock exchange(s) and recognised clearing 
corporation(s). 
 
117 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.

[Page 50]
Repeal and savings 
 
52. (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
(Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012 and the following 
circulars, shall stand rescinded: 
(a) Circular No. CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012, dated December 13, 2012 - Procedural norms 
on Recognitions, Ownership and Governance for Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations; 
(b) Circular No. SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2016/30 dated January 22, 2016 - 
Amendment to SEBI Circular CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012 dated December 13, 2012 
pursuant to amendment in Regulation 2(1)(b) of SECC Regulations, 2012.  
 
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken or purported to have been 
taken or contemplated under the repealed regulations and circulars 118[referred to in sub-
regulation (1)] before the commencement of these regulations shall be deemed to have 
been done or taken or commenced or contemplated under the corresponding provisions of 
these regulations. 
 
(3) After the repeal of the regulations and circulars referred to in sub-regulation (1), any 
reference thereto in any regulation, guideline, circular or direction issued by the Board 
shall be deemed to be a reference to the relevant provisions of these regulations. 
 
119[(4) On and from the commencement of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock 
Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory Fee on Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006, 
shall stand repealed. 
 
(5) On and from the date of repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Fee on Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006, anything done or any action taken or 
purported to have been taken or contemplated under the said regulations and circulars 
before the commencement of Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 shall be deemed to have been 
done or taken or commenced or contemplated under the corresponding provisions of these 
regulations.] 
 
SCHEDULE -I 
FORM A 
[See regulations 4 and 12] 
 
118 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 23-03-2021. 
119 Ibid.

[Page 51]
Application for recognition of clearing corporation under regulation 4/ Application for 
renewal of recognition of clearing corporation under regulation 12 of the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018 
To 
………………………. 
………………………. 
 
Subject: Application for recognition or renewal of recognition of a clearing corporation under 
regulation 4/regulation 12 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018. 
 
Sir, 
1. We/I on behalf of ................. (name and address of clearing corporation) being a clearing 
corporation hereby apply for recognition/renewal of recognition for the purposes of the said Act 
in respect of clearing and settlement of contracts in securities. 
2. Two copies of the rules, memorandum and articles of association relating in general to the 
constitution and management of the clearing corporation and two copies of the bye-laws for the 
clearing and settlement of contracts in securities are enclosed. 
3. All the necessary information required in the Annexure to this Form is enclosed. Any 
additional information will be furnished as and when called for by the Board. 
4. 120[We/I,  on  behalf  of  the  said  clearing  corporation,  hereby  undertake  to  comply  with  
the requirements  of  section  4  of  the  said  Act  and  such  other  conditions  and  terms  as  may  
be contained in the certificate of recognition or be provided or imposed subsequently. 
Proof of payment by way of direct credit into the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or 
online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other mode as may be specified by the 
Board from time to time, towards payment of fees as specified in regulation 5/ regulation 12 of 
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 
2018, is attached.] 
 
 
120 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 01-04-2023. Prior to its substitution, clause (4) read as under -  
“4. We/I, on behalf of the said clearing corporation, hereby undertake to comply with the requirements of section 4 
of the said Act and such other conditions and terms as may be contained in the certificate of recognition or be 
provided or imposed subsequently. 
 Proof of payment by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other electronic 
mode permitted by RBI or through Demand Draft No dated drawn in favour of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India towards payment of fees as specified in regulation 5/ regulation 12 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
(Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018,is attached.”

[Page 52]
Yours faithfully, 
Authorised signatory

[Page 53]
ANNEXURE TO FORM 'A' 
Part I — General 
1. Name of the applicant clearing corporation. 
2. Address. 
3. Date of establishment or incorporation of a clearing corporation. 
4. Is your clearing corporation a joint stock company (state whether public or private) registered 
under the Companies Act? 
5. Give details of your capital structure and attach three copies of the audited balance sheets and 
profit and loss account of the clearing corporation for the preceding three years. 
6. Give details of shareholding pattern of the clearing corporation. 
7. Has your business viability plan been appraised by a reputed agency having expertise in 
securities market for its viability? Give a copy of the appraisal report. 
8. Have you entered into an agreement with recognised stock exchange(s) for clearing and 
settling its trades? Give the name of such stock exchange(s) and details of its organisation and 
management. 
Part II — Clearing membership of clearing corporation. 
9. State the number of clearing members at the time of application. Also specify how many are 
inactive. 
10. State whether there is any provision, resolution or convention for limiting the number of 
clearing members and whether in pursuance thereof you have fixed a ceiling on the number of 
clearing members that you would admit. 
11. Do you insist on any minimum qualifications and experience before enrolling new clearing 
members? If so, give details. 
12. State the different classes of clearing members, if any, the number thereof and the privileges 
enjoyed by each class. What is the procedure followed by your clearing corporation for the 
admission of different classes of new clearing members? 
13. What are the rates of your annual subscription in respect of the different classes of clearing 
members? 
14. Do you collect any security deposit from your clearing members? If so, give details and also 
state the manner in which such deposits are utilised and the rate of interest allowed, if any. 
15. Do you collect any admission or entrance fees from your clearing members? If so, how much? 
16. Do you insist on your clearing members divesting themselves of other activities either as 
principal or as employee? 
17. Give details of the scale of brokerage and other charges, if any, specified by your clearing 
corporation. 
18. Do you prescribe standard form of agreement to be entered with the trading member for 
engaging the services of your clearing member? Attach two copies of such agreement.

[Page 54]
19. What are the measures adopted by you to regulate or prohibit advertising or issuing circulars 
by your clearing members? 
20. Do you require clearing members to supply such information or explanation and to produce 
such books relating to their business as your governing board may require?  
21. Do you undertake periodic inspection of your clearing members? Give details including the 
number of annual inspections and manpower available for conducting inspection. 
 
Part III — Governing Board 
22. What is the present strength of your governing board? Give details of the constitution, powers 
of management, election and tenure of office of members of the governing board, and the 
manner in which its business is transacted. 
23. Are any trade or commercial interest represented on your governing board? If so, give details 
of interests represented. 
24. Do you associate members of investors associations with the management of your clearing 
corporation? If so, state the manner in which it is done.  
25. Are there any Government or the Board representatives on your governing board? If so, furnish 
their names. 
26. How many public interest directors are there on the governing board? Furnish their names, 
qualifications and experience. 
 
121[***] 
 
28. Do you have any provision for the appointment of standing or ad hoc subcommittees of the 
governing board? If so, furnish details of their composition, appointment, term of office, 
powers and functions. 
29. Give the designations, powers and duties of key management personnel of your clearing 
corporation. Give details as to the mode of their appointment, tenure of office and 
remuneration. 
30. What are the disciplinary powers with the governing board to enforce due compliance by 
clearing members of the rules and bye-laws of the clearing corporation and generally to ensure 
proper standard of business conduct? 
31. What provisions have you made for the levy and recovery of fees, fines and penalties? 
 
Part IV — Clearing and Settlement 
32. Describe the clearing and settlement system of the clearing corporation.  
33. State the different kinds of products being cleared and settled or proposed to be cleared and 
settled in your clearing corporation (e.g., equity, equity derivative, currency derivatives, 
interest rate derivatives, debt instruments, etc.). State the period of delivery, payment and the 
settlement mechanism in each case. 
34. What are the conditions subject to which trades are settled and cleared on your clearing 
corporation? 
 
121  Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 30-07-2024. Prior to omission, it read as: 
“27. Do your rules provide for the direct election by clearing members on the Advisory Committee of the 
governing board? If so, give details of its constitution, tenure, powers and functions.”

[Page 55]
35. What are your requirements for admitting derivative transactions for clearing and settlement? 
36. Do you have the right to prohibit, withdraw or suspend clearing and settlement of dealings 
admitted for clearing and settlement? If so, under what circumstances is this right exercised? 
37. Give details of the clearing and settlement charges and other charges, if any, levied by your 
clearing corporation. 
38. What provisions have you made for periodical settlement of contracts and differences 
thereunder, the delivery of, and payment for securities and the passing of delivery orders? 
(a) How do you fix, alter or postpone the dates of settlement? 
(b) Do you provide any safeguards for the prevention of market manipulation, especially in the 
case of physical delivery of shares in the derivative markets and for meeting emergencies in 
settlement? Give details. 
(c) Provide a detailed assessment of the measures adopted to address the various risks faced by 
the clearing corporation in terms of the BIS-IOSCO paper on 'Principles for Financial Market 
Infrastructures.' 
(d) Do you publish any statistics in regard to business done on the clearing corporation including 
the value of Settlement Guarantee Fund and transactions settled through the clearing 
corporation, if maintained? In particular, have you evolved any machinery for computing the 
gross and net exposure of the clearing corporation and the value of clearing and settling of 
different kinds of contracts permitted on your clearing corporation? Give details. 
(e) (a) Do you have any bye-laws, contravention of which makes a contract void? 
(2) Do you have necessary infrastructure, margin mechanism and adequate risk management 
mechanism to ensure market safety and integrity? Give Details 
(3) Do you undertake any other activity other than clearing and settling? Give Details. 
(4) What is your net worth? Give Details. 
(5) Give details of business hours? 
(6) What are the conditions subject to which dealings are admitted for clearing and settlement? 
(f) Do you maintain Settlement Guarantee Fund? Give details of the corpus of the settlement 
guarantee fund, its contribution, circumstances for utilisation, priority of utilisation, etc 
(g) How do you ensure the adequacy of the Settlement Guarantee Fund? Do you perform stress 
tests on a periodic basis. Give details and results of the latest stress test. 
(h) What is the netting procedure adopted by the clearing corporation for determining the 
obligations of the clearing member? 
(i) What is your policy in respect of settling trades of shareholder stock exchange and non-
shareholder stock exchange? 
(j) Do you have any provisions for regulating the volume of business and exposure taken by any 
individual clearing member other than through a system of margins? If so, give details. 
(k) What provisions have you made for regulating— (a) the entering into contracts, their 
performance and rescission (b) the consequences of breach, default or insolvency on the part 
of trading or clearing members whether acting as buyers, sellers or intermediaries? 
 
Part V — Infrastructure 
(l) Do you have any machinery for arbitration of disputes between clearing members and/or 
between clearing members and their constituents and trading member and clearing member? 
Give details. 
(m) Have you established connectivity with the depositories, clearing banks, stock exchange and 
clearing members? Give details. 
(n) What is the average load that is being handled by your systems? What is the peak load that can 
be handled and the extent of scalability of the systems in times of stress?

[Page 56]
(o) What is your business continuity plan? Give details including details of the disaster 
recovery site. 
(p) What are the names, qualifications and expertise of your key management personnel? 
 
 
FORM B 
[See regulation 9 and 12]  
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
No ....................................The Securities and Exchange Board of India, having considered the 
application for grant of recognition/renewal of recognition under regulation 4/regulation 12 of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 
2018 by ............................(name and address of clearing corporation) and being satisfied that it 
would be in the interest of the trade, in the interest of securities market and also in the public 
interest so to do, hereby grants, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 read with sub-
section (4) of section 8A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, 
recognition to the said clearing corporation for .................. year/years ending ...................... 20 
 ..... subject to the conditions stated herein below or as may be prescribed or imposed hereafter. 
Seal of the Board  
Date: 
Place: Mumbai  
Signature of Officer

[Page 57]
SCHEDULE - II 
122[Part-A 
[See regulation 10A] 
 
122 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its substitution, it read as under -  
Code of conduct for the directors on the governing board 
1. Meetings and minutes. 
Every director of the recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall— 
(a) not participate in discussions on any subject matter in which any conflict of interest exists or arises, 
whether pecuniary or otherwise, and in such cases the same shall be disclosed and recorded in the 
minutes of the meeting; 
(b) not encourage the circulation of agenda papers during the meeting, unless circumstances so require; 
(c) offer their comments on the draft minutes and ensure that the same are incorporated in the final minutes; 
(d) insist on the minutes of the previous meeting being placed for approval in subsequent meeting; 
(e) endeavour to have the date of next meeting fixed at each governing board meeting in consultation with 
other members of the governing board; 
(f) endeavour to ensure that in case all the items of the agenda of a meeting were not covered for want of 
time, the next meeting is held within fifteen days for considering the remaining items. 
 
2. Code of Conduct for the public interest directors. 
(a) In addition to the conditions stated in Para (i) above, public interest directors of the recognised stock 
exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall, endeavour to attend all the governing board meetings 
and they shall be liable to vacate office if they remain absent for three consecutive meetings of the 
governing board or do not attend seventy five per cent. of the total meetings of the governing board in 
a calendar year. 
(b) Public interest directors shall meet separately, at least once in six months to exchange views on critical 
issues. 
(c) The public interest directors shall identify important issues which may involve conflict of interest for 
the stock exchange/ clearing corporation, or may have significant impact on the functioning of 
recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, or may not be in the interest of securities 
market. The same shall be reported to the Board. 
 
3. Strategic planning. 
Every director of the recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall— 
(a) participate in the formulation and execution of strategies in the best interest of the recognised stock 
exchange or recognised clearing corporation and contribute towards pro-active decision making at 
the governing board level; 
(b) give benefit of their experience and expertise to the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing 
corporation and provide assistance in strategic planning and execution of decisions. 
      
4. Regulatory compliances. 
Every director of the recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall— 
(a)  ensure that the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation abides by all the 
applicable provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996,  rules and regulations framed thereunder and the 
circulars, directions issued by the Board from time to time; 
(b) ensure compliance at all levels so that the regulatory system does not suffer any breaches; 
(c)  ensure that the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation takes steps 
commensurate to honour the time limit stipulated by Board for corrective action; 
(d) not support any decision in the meeting of the governing board which may adversely affect the interest 
of investors and shall report forthwith any such decision to the Board. 
5. General responsibility. 
Every director of the recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall— 
(a) place priority for redressing investor grievances and encouraging fair trade practice so that the 
recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation becomes an engine for the growth of 
the securities market;

[Page 58]
(b) endeavour to analyse and administer the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing 
corporation issues with professional competence, fairness, impartiality, efficiency and effectiveness; 
(c) submit the necessary disclosures/statement of holdings/dealings in securities as required by the 
recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation from time to time as per their Rules or 
Articles of Association; 
(d) unless otherwise required by law, maintain confidentiality and shall not divulge/disclose any 
information obtained in the discharge of their duty and no such information shall be used for personal 
gains; 
(e) maintain the highest standards of personal integrity, truthfulness, honesty and fortitude in discharge 
of their duties in order to inspire public confidence and shall not engage in acts discreditable to their 
responsibilities; 
(f) perform their duties in an independent and objective manner and avoid activities that may impair, or 
may appear to impair, their independence or objectivity or official duties; 
(g) perform their duties with a positive attitude and constructively support open communication, 
creativity, dedication, and compassion; 
(h) not engage in any act involving moral turpitude, dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation or any 
other act prejudicial to the administration of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing 
corporation.  
 
PART - B 
[See regulation 26(2)] 
Code of Ethics for directors and key management personnel of stock exchanges or clearing corporations 
The 'Code of Ethics' for directors and key management personnel of the recognised stock exchanges or recognised 
clearing corporations, is aimed at improving the professional and ethical standards in the functioning of recognised 
stock exchanges or recognised clearing corporations thereby creating better investor confidence in the integrity of 
the  securities market. 
1. Objectives and underlying principles. 
The Code of Ethics for directors and key management personnel of the recognised stock exchange or 
recognised clearing corporation seeks to establish a minimum level of business/ professional ethics to be 
followed by these directors and key management personnel, towards establishing a fair and transparent 
marketplace. The Code of Ethics is based on the following fundamental principles: 
(a) Fairness and transparency in dealing with matters relating to the stock exchange or clearing 
corporation and the investors. 
(b) Compliance with all laws/ rules/ regulations laid down by regulatory agencies/ recognised stock 
exchange/ recognised clearing corporation. 
(c) Exercising due diligence in the performance of duties. 
(d) Avoidance of conflict of interest between self interest of directors/ key management personnel and 
interests of recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation and investors. 
2. Regulatory oversight committee. 
For overseeing implementation of this Code, a regulatory oversight committee shall be constituted by every 
recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation under the respective governing board. 
3. General standards. 
(a) Directors and key management personnel shall endeavour to promote greater awareness and 
understanding of ethical responsibilities. 
(b) Directors and key management personnel, in the conduct of their business shall observe high standards 
of commercial honour and just and equitable principles of trade. 
(c) The conduct of directors and key management personnel in business life should be exemplary which will 
set a standard for other members of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation. 
(d) Directors and key management personnel shall not use their position to  give/get favours to/from 
the executive or administrative staff of the  stock exchange or clearing corporation, technology or 
service providers  and vendors of the recognised recognised stock exchange or recognized clearing 
 corporation, or any listed company at the recognised stock exchange. 
(e) Directors and key management personnel shall not commit any act which will put the reputation of the 
recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, in jeopardy.

[Page 59]
(f) Directors, committee members and key management personnel of the recognised stock exchange or 
recognised clearing corporation, should comply with the provisions of all applicable law to the securities 
market. 
4. Disclosure of dealings in securities by key management personnel of the stock exchange or clearing 
corporation. 
 
(a) Key management personnel of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall 
disclose on a periodic basis as determined by the recognized stock exchange or recognised clearing 
corporation (which could be monthly), all their dealings in securities, directly or indirectly, to the 
governing board/ regulatory oversight committee/ Compliance Officer. 
(b) The dealings in securities shall also be subject to trading restrictions for securities about which key 
management personnel in the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation may have 
unpublished price sensitive information. Requirement laid down under Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 shall be referred in this regard. 
(c) All transactions must be of an investment nature and not speculative in nature. Towards this end, all 
securities purchased must be held for a minimum period of sixty days before they are sold. However, in 
specific/exceptional circumstances, sale can be effected anytime by obtaining pre-clearance from the 
Compliance Officer to waive this condition after recording in writing his satisfaction in this regard. 
Explanation.—"securities" for the purposes of this Code shall not include mutual fund units. 
5. Disclosure of dealings in securities by directors of the stock exchange or clearing corporation. 
(a) All transactions / dealings in securities by the directors and their relatives shall be disclosed to the 
governing board of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation. 
(b) All directors shall also disclose the trading conducted by firms/corporate entities in which they hold 
twenty per cent. or more beneficial interest or hold a controlling interest, to the stock exchange/clearing 
corporation. 
(c) The details including time period for disclosure under clause 5 (a) and 5 (b) above shall be prescribed by 
the stock exchange/clearing corporation, provided that the time period for disclosure shall not be later 
than fifteen days of the transaction / dealing. 
(d) Directors who are Govt. of India nominees or nominees of Govt. of India statutory bodies or Public 
Financial Institutions and are governed by their own codes shall be exempt from this requirement. 
6. Avoidance of conflict of interest. 
 
a) No director of the governing board or member of any committee of the recognised stock exchange 
or recognised clearing corporation shall participate in any decisionmaking/adjudication in respect of any 
person /matter in which he is in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested. 
b) Whether there is any conflict of interest or not in a matter, shall be decided by the governing board. 
7. Disclosures of beneficial interest. 
 
All directors and key management personnel shall disclose to the governing board, upon assuming office 
and during their tenure in office, whenever the following arises:— 
(a) any fiduciary relationship of self and family members and directorship/partnership of self and family 
members in any trading member or clearing member; 
(b) shareholding, in cases where the shareholding of the director/key management personnel, directly or 
through his family exceeds 5 per cent. in any listed company or in other entities related to the securities 
markets; 
(c) any other business interests. 
8. Role of the Chairperson and directors in the day to day functioning of the stock exchange or clearing 
corporation. 
 
(a) The Chairperson and directors shall not interfere in the day to day functioning of the recognised stock 
exchange or recognised clearing corporation and shall limit their role to decision making on policy 
issues and to issues as the governing board may decide. 
(b) The Chairperson and directors shall abstain from influencing the employees of the recognised stock 
exchange or recognised clearing corporation in conducting their day to day activities.

[Page 60]
(c) The Chairperson and directors shall not be directly involved in the function of appointment and 
promotion of employees unless specifically so decided by the governing board. 
9. Access to information. 
 
(a) Directors shall call for information only as part of specific committees or as may be authorised by the 
governing board. 
(b) There shall be prescribed channels through which information shall move and further there shall be 
audit trail of the same. Any retrieval of confidential documents/ information shall be properly recorded. 
(c) All such information, especially which is non-public and price sensitive, shall be kept confidential and 
not be used for any personal consideration/ gain. 
(d) Any information relating to the business/operations of the recognised stock exchange or recognised 
clearing corporation, which may come to the knowledge of directors/ key management personnel during 
performance of their duties shall be held in strict confidence, shall not be divulged to any third party 
and shall not be used in any manner except for the performance of their duties. 
10. Misuse of position. 
 
Directors/ committee members shall not use their position to obtain business or any pecuniary benefit in the 
organization for themselves or family members. 
 
11. Regulatory Oversight committee to lay down procedures. 
 
(a) The regulatory oversight committee shall lay down procedures for the implementation of the code and 
prescribe reporting formats for the disclosures required under the code. 
(b) The Compliance Officer shall execute the requirements laid down by the regulatory oversight 
committee. 
While the objective of this Code is to enhance the level of market integrity and investor confidence, it is 
emphasized that a written code of ethics may not completely guarantee adherence to high ethical standards. 
This can be accomplished only if directors and key management personnel of the recognised stock exchange 
or recognised clearing corporation commit themselves to the task of enhancing the fairness and integrity of the 
system in letter and spirit. 
 
PART – C 
[See regulation 28] 
Measures to ensure segregation of regulatory departments 
(1) In order to ensure the segregation of regulatory departments, every recognised stock exchange and 
recognised clearing corporation shall adopt a "Chinese Wall" policy which separates the regulatory 
departments of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation from the other 
departments. The employees in the regulatory departments shall not communicate any information 
concerning regulatory activity to any one in other departments. The employees in regulatory areas may be 
physically segregated from employees in other departments including with respect to access controls. In 
exceptional circumstances employees from other departments may be given confidential information on 
"need to know" basis, under intimation to the Compliance Officer. 
 
(2) Regulation 28 of these Regulations mandate segregation of regulatory departments from other departments. 
For this purpose, an indicative list of regulatory departments is given below. The governing board of the 
stock exchange/ clearing corporation may specify any other department having a regulatory function in 
addition to the list given below as a regulatory department. 
 
(3) Departments handling the following functions shall be considered as regulatory departments in a Stock 
Exchange:- 
(a) surveillance, 
(b) listing, 
(c) member registration, 
(d) compliance, 
(e) inspection, 
(f) enforcement,

[Page 61]
Code of Conduct for Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations 
 
A recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall:  
 
(a) always abide by the provisions of the Act, Securities and Exchange Board of 
India Act, 1992, any Rules or Regulations framed thereunder, circulars, 
guidelines and any other directions issued by the Board from time to time. 
(b) adopt appropriate due diligence measures.  
(c) take effective measures to ensure implementation of risk management 
framework and good governance practices.  
(d) take appropriate measures towards investor protection and education of 
investors. 
(e) treat all its applicants or members in a fair and transparent manner.  
(f) promptly inform the Board of violations of the provisions of the Act, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, rules, regulations, 
circulars, guidelines or any other directions by any of its members or issuer.  
(g) take a proactive and responsible attitude towards safeguarding the interests 
of investors, integrity of stock exchange’s or clearing corporation’s systems 
and the securities market.  
(h) endeavor for introduction of best business practices amongst itself and its 
members. 
 
(g) arbitration, 
(h) default, 
(i)   investor protection,  
(j)   investor services, 
 
(4) Departments handling the following functions shall be considered as regulatory departments in a Clearing 
Corporation:- 
(a) Risk management, 
(b) member registration, 
(c) compliance, 
(d) inspection, 
(e) enforcement, 
(f) default, 
(g) investor protection, 
(h) investor services, 
 
(5) The recognized stock exchange / recognized clearing corporation shall ensure that the regulatory 
departments viz., surveillance, inspection, risk management, default, investor protection, investor services 
etc, are sufficiently staffed with adequate number of persons having professional and relevant experience at 
all times.

[Page 62]
(i) act in utmost good faith and shall avoid conflict of interest in the conduct of 
its functions. 
(j) not indulge in unfair competition, which is likely to harm the interests of any 
other stock exchange or clearing corporation, their members or investors or 
is likely to place them in a disadvantageous position while competing for or 
executing any assignment. 
(k) Segregate roles and responsibilities of key management personnel within the 
stock exchange and clearing corporation including 
i. Clearly mapping legal and regulatory duties to the concerned position 
ii. Defining delegation of powers to each position 
iii. Assigning regulatory, risk management and compliance aspects to 
business and support teams 
(l) be responsible for the acts or omissions of its employees in respect of the 
conduct of its business. 
(m) monitor the compliance of the rules and regulations by the members and shall 
further ensure that their conduct is in a manner that will safeguard the interest 
of investors and the securities market. 
 
Part-B 
[See regulation 26(1)] 
 
Code of Conduct for governing board, directors, committee members and key 
management personnel 
 
I. Governing Board 
 
The governing board of the recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing 
corporation shall- 
 
a) evaluate profitability margins of the stock exchanges or clearing corporations.  
b) ensure adequacy of resource allocation (both financial and human) towards 
regulatory compliances.  
c) focus on strategy, policy level issues and important matters and may review the 
day-to-day operational matters only in exceptional cases.  
d) oversee the critical operations including technology as well as the regulatory, 
risk management, compliance and investor grievance redressal functions of the 
stock exchange or clearing corporation. 
e) take the lead in succession planning for the managing director and other key 
positions.  
f) play an active role in defining, establishing and documenting risk management 
framework, covering risk appetite or risk tolerance policy of the stock exchange 
or clearing corporation and ensure that the policy contains the following:-

[Page 63]
i. role of risk appetite in key processes 
ii. clear quantitative metrics and thresholds to monitor performance of the  
stock exchange’s or clearing corporation’s  risk appetite 
iii. acceptability of breaches and trigger response(s), if any. 
iv. zero tolerance for areas such as cyber security, system stability, 
surveillance, fair access, fraud or corruption, compliance, etc. 
 
g) make key stakeholders (executive and non-executive) aware of the use and value 
of risk appetite across the organization (including implications of breaches) and 
review and approve risk appetite metrics and thresholds periodically.  
h) ensure adequate independence of key functions such as regulatory and control 
functions (risk management, compliance and audit functions) such that; 
 
i. regulatory and control functions have sufficient stature to perform 
their tasks effectively. 
ii. regulatory and control functions operate independently and have 
appropriate direct access to the governing board of the stock exchange 
and clearing corporation and senior management. 
iii. control functions are proactively involved in all relevant decisions and 
activities. 
 
i) Provide for three lines of defense construct where: 
 
i. the first line of defense incorporates business units and support 
functions as it has the responsibility to own and manage risks 
associated with day to day operational activities.  
ii. the second line of defense 123[consists of] various oversight functions 
i.e., regulatory, risk management, compliance teams, and 
iii. the third line of defense comprises the internal audit function.  
 
j) ensure that the roles and responsibilities of management in relation to three lines 
of defense are clearly specified and understood and that all employees are 
responsible for the regulatory, risk management and compliance outcomes. 
k) ensure a culture of effective communication and challenge (i.e., encourage 
alternate views or questions from individuals and groups) and value and respect 
it.  
l) ensure that any new product, service, revenue stream is examined by the 
concerned department of the stock exchange or clearing corporation from the 
compliance and risk management perspectives in addition to normal viability 
issues before approving the same.  
m) review periodically all existing products, services and revenue streams. 
 
123 Substituted for the words “comprises of” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 23-08-2023.

[Page 64]
n) shall meet, without the presence of the managing director and any other 
executive director, the chief regulatory officer or compliance officer, the chief 
risk officer, the chief information security officer, the statutory auditor of the 
stock exchange and clearing corporation and any other person as determined by 
the public interest directors and non-independent directors to discuss important 
issues concerning the stock exchange and clearing corporation, on a periodic 
basis as specified by the Board. 
o) periodically review the frequency of meetings and agenda items of the governing 
board and statutory committees to ensure that the number of meetings is 
rationalized and all important issues are discussed. 
p) ensure that the agenda papers are approved by the Chairman of the governing 
board. 
q) ensure that members of the governing board can place agenda item during their 
meeting. 
r) be responsible for monitoring compliance with the code of conduct by the 
directors of the stock exchange and clearing corporation. 
s) uphold a strong culture in the stock exchange or clearing corporation and 
promote target culture from the top through behaviour, actions and effective 
communication. 
t) communicate the guiding principles for institution’s target regulatory, 
compliance, risk and conduct culture.  
u) endeavor that the stock exchange and clearing corporation put in place key 
elements related to culture such as: 
 
i. adequate training programs to help employees better understand 
expectations of behavior (for example, trainings on dilemmas);  
ii. mechanisms to measure and track indicators related to culture at regular 
intervals;  
iii. accountability mechanisms; and  
iv. performance management mechanisms which take into account 
adherence to culture, conduct and behavior related dimensions.] 
 
 
II. Code of Conduct for directors, committee members and key management 
personnel 
 
A. Applicable to directors, committee members and key management personnel 
of stock exchange and clearing corporation: 
 
1. General Responsibility. 
Every director, committee members and key management personnel of the recognised 
stock exchanges or recognised clearing corporations shall—

[Page 65]
(a) analyse and administer the stock exchanges’ and clearing corporations’ issues 
with professional competence, fairness, impartiality, efficiency and 
effectiveness; 
(b) submit the necessary disclosures, statement of holdings, dealings in securities as 
required by the stock exchanges and clearing corporations from time to time as 
per their rules, bye-laws or articles of association; 
(c) unless otherwise required by law, maintain confidentiality and not divulge or 
disclose any information obtained in the discharge of their duty and no such 
information is used for personal gains; 
(d) maintain the highest standards of personal integrity, truthfulness, honesty and 
fortitude in discharge of their duties in order to inspire public confidence and 
not engage in acts discreditable to their responsibilities; 
(e) perform their duties in an independent and objective manner and avoid activities 
that may impair, or may appear to impair, their independence or objectivity or 
official duties; 
(f) perform their duties with a positive attitude and constructively support open 
communication, creativity, dedication, and compassion; 
(g) not engage in any act involving moral turpitude, dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or 
misrepresentation or any other act prejudicial to the administration of the stock 
exchanges and clearing corporations; 
(h) promote greater awareness and understanding of ethical responsibilities; 
(i) in the conduct of their business, observe high standards of commercial honour 
and; just and equitable principles of trade; 
(j) be exemplary in their conduct in business life which may set a standard for 
others; 
(k) not use their position to give or receive favours to or from the executive or 
administrative staff of the stock exchange or clearing corporation, technology or 
service providers and vendors or suppliers of the stock exchange and clearing 
corporation, or any listed company at the stock exchange or any issuer company 
admitted by the stock exchanges and clearing corporations; 
(l) not commit any act which will put the reputation of the stock exchanges or 
clearing corporations in jeopardy; 
(m) comply with the provisions of all applicable laws pertaining to the securities 
market; 
(n) directors and key management personnel shall at all point of time comply with 
all the internal policies of the stock exchange and clearing corporation including 
their code of conduct. If there is a conflict between the code of conduct policy 
of the stock exchange or clearing corporation with those provided by the Board, 
then the policy issued by the Board shall prevail. 
 
 
2. Regulatory Compliances.

[Page 66]
Every director, committee member and key management personnel of the recognised 
stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall— 
(a) ensure that the stock exchange or clearing corporation abides by all the 
applicable provisions of the Act, the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992, rules and regulations framed thereunder and the circulars, directions 
or any other instructions issued by the Board from time to time; 
(b) ensure compliance at all levels so that the regulatory system does not suffer any 
breaches; 
(c) ensure that the stock exchange or clearing corporation takes steps commensurate 
to honour the time limit stipulated by Board for corrective action. 
 
3. Disclosures of Beneficial Interest. 
All directors, committee members and key management personnel shall disclose to the 
governing board of recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, upon 
assuming office and during their tenure in office, whenever the following arises:— 
(a) any fiduciary relationship of self and family members and directorship or 
partnership of self and family members in any trading member or clearing 
member or depository participant or registrar and transfer agent; 
(b) shareholding, in cases where the shareholding of the director or key management 
personnel, directly or through his family exceeds 5 percent in any listed 
company or in other entities related to the securities markets; 
(c) any other business interests. 
 
4. Access to Information. 
(a) There shall be prescribed channels through which information shall move and 
further there shall be audit trail of the same. Any retrieval of confidential 
documents or information shall be properly recorded. 
(b) All such information, especially which is non-public and price sensitive, shall 
be kept confidential and not be used for any personal consideration or gain. 
(c) Any information relating to the business or operations of the stock exchange or 
clearing corporation, which may come to the knowledge of directors or 
committee members or key management personnel during performance of their 
duties shall be held in strict confidence, shall not be divulged to any third party 
and shall not be used in any manner except for the performance of their duties. 
(d) Directors shall call for information only as part of specific committees or as may 
be authorised by the governing board of stock exchange or clearing corporation. 
 
5. Misuse of Position. 
Directors or committee members or key management personnel shall not use their 
position to obtain business or any pecuniary benefit in the organization for themselves 
or family members. 
 
B. Applicable to the Directors and Committee Members

[Page 67]
1. Meetings and Minutes. 
The directors and committee members of the recognised stock exchange or recognised 
clearing corporation shall— 
(a) not participate in discussions on any subject matter in which any conflict of 
interest exists or arises, whether pecuniary or otherwise and in such cases the 
same shall be disclosed and recorded in the minutes of the meeting; 
(b) not encourage the circulation of agenda papers during the meeting, unless 
circumstances so require; 
(c) ensure that minutes are recorded to capture all points of opinion 
comprehensively; 
(d) offer their comments on the draft minutes and ensure that the same are 
incorporated in the final minutes; 
(e) insist on the minutes of the previous meeting being placed for approval in 
subsequent meeting; 
(f) endeavor to have the date of next meeting fixed at each governing board meeting 
and committee meetings respectively in consultation with other respective 
members of the governing board and committees; 
(g) ensure that all important agendas placed before the governing board of stock 
exchange and clearing corporation and committees are deliberated in a timely 
manner; 
(h) not support any decision in the meeting of the governing board of stock 
exchange and clearing corporation and the committees respectively which may 
adversely affect the interest of investors and shall report forthwith any such 
decision to the Board. 
 
2. Role of the directors and committee members in the day to day functioning of 
the recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation. 
(a) The directors and committee members shall not interfere in the day to day 
functioning of the stock exchange or clearing corporations and shall limit their 
role to decision making on policy issues and to issues as the governing board of 
stock exchange and clearing corporation may decide. 
(b) The directors and committee members shall abstain from influencing the 
employees of the stock exchange and clearing corporations in conducting their 
day to day activities. 
(c) The directors and committee members shall not be directly involved in the 
function of appointment and promotion of employees unless specifically so 
decided by the governing board of stock exchange and clearing corporation. 
 
3. Avoidance of Conflict of Interest. 
(a) No director or committee member of the stock exchange or clearing corporation 
shall participate in any decision making or adjudication in respect of any person

[Page 68]
or matter in which he or she is in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or 
interested.  
(b) Conflict of interest in a matter, if any, shall be decided by the governing board 
of the stock exchange and clearing corporation. 
 
4. Strategic Planning. 
Every director and committee member of the recognised stock exchange and recognised 
clearing corporation shall— 
(a) participate in the formulation and execution of strategies in the best interest of 
the stock exchange and clearing corporation and contribute towards pro-active 
decision making at the governing board level; 
(b) give benefit of their experience and expertise to the stock exchange and clearing 
corporation and provide assistance in strategic planning and execution of 
decisions; 
(c) place priority for redressing investor grievances and encouraging fair trade 
practice so that the stock exchange and clearing corporation becomes an engine 
for the growth of the securities market. 
 
5. Disclosure of dealings in securities by Directors of the recognised stock exchange 
and recognised clearing corporations. 
(a) All transactions or dealings in securities by the directors and their immediate 
relatives (as defined in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015) shall be disclosed to the governing board 
of the stock exchange or clearing corporation.  
(b) All directors shall also disclose the trading conducted by firms or corporate 
entities in which they hold twenty percent or more beneficial interest or hold a 
controlling interest, to the stock exchange or clearing corporation. 
(c) The details including time period for disclosures stated above shall be provided 
by the stock exchange and clearing corporation, provided that the time period 
for disclosure shall not be later than fifteen days of the transaction/ dealing. 
(d) Directors who are nominees of Government of India, its statutory bodies or 
Public Financial Institutions and are governed by their own codes shall be 
exempt from this requirement. 
 
C. Applicable to Public Interest Directors 
(a) Public Interest Directors of the stock exchange and clearing corporations shall 
endeavor to attend all the governing board meetings and they shall be liable to 
vacate office if they remain absent for three consecutive meetings of the 
governing board or do not attend seventy-five percent of the total meetings of 
the governing board in a calendar year. 
(b) Public interest directors shall meet separately, at least once in six months to 
exchange views on critical issues. Public interest directors shall submit a report 
of such meeting to the Board and to the governing board of the recognised stock

[Page 69]
exchange and recognised clearing corporation within the time and manner as 
may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(c) Public interest directors shall identify important issues which may involve 
conflict of interest for the stock exchange and clearing corporation or may have 
significant impact on the functioning of the stock exchange and clearing 
corporation or may not be in the interest of securities market. The same shall be 
reported to the Board in a time bound manner. 
(d) Public interest directors shall have regular oversight on observations of Board’s 
inspection particularly on issues of governance standards, technology and cyber 
security and system audit and cyber security audit observations.  
(e) Public interest directors should be proactive in identifying any issues concerning 
functioning of stock exchange or clearing corporations and report the same to 
the Board. Public interest directors should ensure all regulatory 
communication/letter from the Board are placed before the governing board with 
comments/report of managing director. 
(f) Public interest directors shall put in place an evaluation mechanism to assess the 
performance of managing directors on a continuing basis in line with evaluation 
guidelines for public interest directors. 
(g) Public interest directors to ensure that appointments of managing director be 
held within specified timelines. Identification of key management personnel be 
closely scrutinized as per the laid down procedure and exceptions should be 
brought to the notice of the Board. 
(h) Public interest directors should take proactive part in the deliberations of 
different committees and steer their functioning. 
(i) Ensure adequacy of resource allocations (both financial & human) towards 
regulatory compliances to be ensured.  
 
D. Applicable to Independent External Professionals 
 
(a) Independent external professionals shall not use or act on any sensitive 
information received in capacity as a member of the statutory committee for 
obtaining any undue benefit. 
 
E. Applicable to key management personnel: 
 
(a) Managing director of the stock exchange or clearing corporation shall meet 
employees without the presence of other key management personnel (the heads 
of departments) to discuss important issues pertaining to stock exchange or 
clearing corporation. 
(b) Key management personnel of the stock exchange and clearing corporation shall 
disclose on a periodic basis as determined by the stock exchange and clearing 
corporation (which could be monthly), all their dealings in securities, directly or 
indirectly, to the governing board or regulatory oversight committee or 
compliance officer of stock exchange and clearing corporation.

[Page 70]
(c) All transactions must be of an investment nature and not speculative in nature. 
Towards this end, all securities purchased must be held for a minimum period 
of sixty days before they are sold. In specific or exceptional circumstances, 
however, sale can be effected anytime by obtaining pre-clearance from the 
compliance officer to waive this condition after recording in writing his 
satisfaction in this regard.  
Explanation. - “securities” for the purpose of this code shall not include mutual 
fund units. 
 
PART C 
[See Regulation 28(2)] 
Core functions of recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation 
1. For recognised stock exchanges the core and critical functions shall include but 
not limited to: 
 
a. Vertical 1: Critical operations 
i. Provision and operation of trading facilities; 
ii. Record keeping and disclosure of trade related information; 
iii. IT infrastructure for core and critical functions; 
iv. Business continuity plan and disaster recovery operations; 
v. Cyber security and cyber resilience framework. 
 
b. Vertical 2: Regulatory, compliance, risk management and investor 
grievances 
i. Risk management; 
ii. Surveillance and investigation; 
iii. Listing; 
iv. Member registration; 
v. Compliance; 
vi. Inspection; 
vii. Enforcement; 
viii. Arbitration and grievance redressal mechanism; 
ix. Member default; 
x. Investor protection and services. 
 
c. Vertical 3: Other functions including business development 
i. Sales; 
ii. Marketing; 
iii. Product development; 
iv. Finance; 
 
2. For recognised clearing corporation the core and critical functions shall include 
but not limited to: 
 
a. Vertical 1: Critical operations 
i. Provision for clearing and settlement; 
ii. Record keeping of information related to clearing and settlement of 
trades;

[Page 71]
iii. IT infrastructure for core and critical functions; 
iv. Business continuity plan and disaster recovery operations; 
v. Cyber security and cyber resilience framework. 
 
b. Vertical 2: Regulatory, compliance, Risk Management and investor 
grievance 
i. Risk management; 
ii. Member registration; 
iii. Compliance; 
iv. Inspection; 
v. Enforcement;  
vi. Member default; 
vii. Investor protection and services. 
 
c. Vertical 3: Other functions including business development 
i. Sales; 
ii. Marketing; 
iii. Product development; 
iv. Finance.] 
 
PART - D  
Application for seeking recognition as a Stock Exchange/ Clearing Corporation 
[See regulation 4, 6 and 7] 
(1) An applicant seeking recognition as a stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall 
substantiate its capability to fulfill all the requirements laid down under SCRA, SCRR 
and regulation 7 of these Regulations at the time of making the application. 
(2) For the purpose of grant of in-principle approval under regulation 7(5) of  these 
Regulations, the Board may take into account the factors which it may deem fit in the 
interest of the securities market. For this purpose, the Board may consider the information 
and documents including but not limited to the following:- 
(a) Business feasibility plan for the next five years, 
(b) Net worth certificate/ financial books and bank account details, 
(c) Detailed write-up on each of its functions, 
(d) Details of authorised officials along with specimen signatures of the authorized 
signatories,  
(e) Proposed organisational structure,  
(f) Necessary undertakings,  
(g) Manpower planning, 
(h) Background and necessary information (as specified herein) to establish that its 
shareholders/promoters are fit and proper persons, Information regarding its Office 
set-up,  appointment of Managing Director after following due process. 
 
(3) Before grant of final approval, in addition to the above, the applicant shall satisfy the Board 
with regard to compliance of the following:

[Page 72]
(a) Appointment of heads of key departments such as legal, listing, member 
registration, trading and surveillance in case of a stock exchange, and 
(b) Appointment of heads of key departments such as risk, legal, clearing and 
settlement, in case of a clearing corporation. 
(c) Satisfactory compliance with observations of the Board during inquiry/ inspection 
by the Board.  
(d) Any other requirement as the Board may deem necessary for disposal of the 
application. 
 
 
PART - E 
Bye-laws of Clearing Corporation, and procedure for submitting amendments to 
Articles/Rules/Bye- laws [*]124, etc., of a recognised stock exchange / recognized clearing 
corporation for approval of the Board 
[See regulation 42] 
(1) A clearing corporation shall in terms of applicable provisions of section 9 of the SCRA 
and regulation 42 of these Regulations make bye-laws, providing  inter alia  for the 
following:- 
(a) the timings for pay-in and pay-out of funds and securities; 
(b) rules for clearing and settlement; 
(c) risk management mechanism; 
(d) process of netting, novation and guarantee for settlement of trades; 
(e) norms for contribution into and utilisation of the Fund in terms of regulation 39 of 
these Regulations ; 
(f) rights and obligations of the clearing members vis-a-vis the clearing corporation, 
other clearing members, the trading  members and clients of such trading 
members; 
(g) criteria for admission and regulation of clearing members; 
(h) default handling mechanism; 
(i) Committees.  
(j) any other matter as may be specified by the Board. 
 
(2) Procedure for submitting amendments to Articles/Rules/Bye- laws [*] 125, etc., for 
approval of the Board:- The amendments to the Memorandum, Articles of Association, 
Rules, bye-laws [*] 126  (as may be applicable) etc., of the stock exchange/clearing 
corporation, in terms of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, other applicable provisions in this regard, shall be 
submitted for approval of the Board, subsequent to the following.  
 
124 Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, it read as “/Regulations”.  
125 Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, it read as “/Regulations”.  
126 Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its omission, it read as “, Regulations”.

[Page 73]
a. The proposed amendment/s shall first be approved by the governing board of the 
stock exchange/clearing corporation, followed by shareholders approval (wherever 
applicable), then shall be submitted to the Board for approval and then published 
in the Gazette of India (wherever applicable) and the respective State.  
b. The proposal shall be accompanied by the minutes of the governing board, the 
shareholder's resolution and public criticism. However, in case the amendments 
are pursuant to Regulations, circular etc, issued by the Board, the same shall not 
be subject to shareholder's approval. 
 
 
PART - F 
Application for grant of approval for holding equity shares in a recognized stock exchange 
or recognized clearing corporation. 
 
[See regulation 19 (4)] 
(1) A shareholder seeking approval of the Board for holding equity shares in a recognised 
stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall submit the following particulars: 
(a) Name 
(b) Address 
(c) Details of employment/ business, if any: 
(d) SEBI registration number, if any. 
(e) Details of registration with other statutory authorities,. 
(f) Declaration regarding the fulfillment of requirements of regulation 20 of these 
Regulations. 
(g) Details of action /penalties taken/imposed against/upon him/it by any statutory 
authority in India or abroad. 
(h) Details of activities that may, in the opinion of the shareholder, lead to his/its 
disqualification. 
(i) Association with trading members/clearing members of stock exchanges/clearing 
corporations. 
(j) Cases pending before any Court, Tribunal or any other statutory authority in India 
or abroad, if any. 
(k) Prior approvals from the Board as fit and proper, if any.

[Page 74]
PART G  
Monitoring of shareholding limits 
[See regulation 19A] 
(1) 127[The] stock exchange/clearing corporation shall put in place a monitoring mechanism 
to ensure compliance with the shareholding conditions specified in these Regulations at all 
times. Stock exchange/clearing corporation shall:- 
(a) Check the shareholding data on a periodic basis to ensure that the shareholding 
restrictions specified under Chapter IV of 128[***] these Regulations are complied with 
at all times. 
(b) Upon breach of shareholding limits, they shall intimate the same to the Board within 
7 days. 
(c) In case of listed stock exchanges, they would be guided by the 129[guidelines as 
specified by the Board from time to time]. 
(d) Disseminate on its website, the number of shares available in the non-public, FII and 
FDI category. The information shall also be disseminated by the stock exchange on 
which the shares may be listed.  
 
 
PART – H 
 
Appointment of Directors  
[See regulation 24 and 25] 
 130[(I)] Procedure for appointment:- 
(1) All directors while seeking approval shall submit to the stock exchange/clearing 
corporation the following details:- 
(a) Name 
(b) Address 
(c) Educational qualification 
(d) Details of employment/ Occupation, past and present 
(e) Details of other directorships 
(f) DIN No. 
(g) Declaration regarding the fulfillment of requirements specified under regulation 
20 of these Regulations. 
 
127 The words, figures and symbol “In terms of sub-regulation 10 of regulation 19, the” substituted by the word “The” 
by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 30-07-2024.  
128 The word “the” omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 30-07-2024. 
129 The words, figures and symbol “Board circular dated January 01, 2016” substituted by the words “guidelines as 
specified by the Board from time to time” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 30-07-2024.  
130 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019.

[Page 75]
(h) Declaration confirming compliance of Regulation 23 (6)  read with Regulation 2 
(1) (b) of these Regulations, in respect of non-association with trading member 
or clearing member. 
(i) Details of regulatory action taken against by any statutory authority in India. 
(j) Details of activities that may in the opinion of the director, lead to his 
disqualification. 
(k) Association with trading members/clearing members of stock exchanges/clearing 
corporations. 
(l)  Disclosure of the names of his dependents associated with the securities market 
as member, sub-broker, authorized person or holding any SEBI registration. 
(m)  An undertaking that he shall abide by the code of conduct and code of ethics 
prescribed in Part A and Part B of Schedule II to these Regulations. 
(n) In the case of public interest directors, consent letters for acting as a public interest 
director.  
(o) Pending / completed criminal cases pending before any authority in India or 
abroad, if any. 
 
131[(2) The  recognised stock  exchange or recognised clearing  corporation  shall  forward  the  
above  details  to the  Board while recommending their names along with the minutes of the 
governing board meeting where  their  name(s)  was  approved,  copy  of  the  shareholders’  
resolution  (wherever applicable) and a confirmation by the recognised stock exchange or 
recognised clearing corporation that they are fit and proper persons in terms of the fit and 
proper criteria, are not associated with any trading member or clearing member in terms of 
regulation 23 (6) read with regulation 2 (1) (b) of these regulations and compliance with the 
requirements specified in regulation 23 (14).] 
 
132[(II)] Managing Director / Executive Director:- 
(1) The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the recognized stock exchange/ 
recognized clearing corporation shall be responsible for selection of CEO /Managing 
Director / Executive Director, as the case may be. The managing director shall be selected 
through open advertisement in all editions of atleast one national daily from amongst 
persons qualified in the fields of capital market/ finance/ management and possessing 
sufficient experience. 133[The stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall forward the new 
 
131 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 28-08-2023 Prior to its substitution sub-clause (2) read as under- 
“(2)The stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall forward the above details to the Board while recommending 
their names along with the minutes of the governing board meeting where their name/s was approved, copy of the 
shareholder's resolution (wherever applicable), a confirmation by the stock exchange/ clearing corporation that they 
are fit and proper persons in terms of their fit and proper criteria and are not associated with any trading member or 
clearing member in terms of regulation 23 (6) read with regulation 2 (1) (b) of these Regulations.”  
132 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. 
133 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “In case of re-appointment, or extension of 
appointment, the stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall apply to the Board two months before the last working 
day of such Managing Director”.

[Page 76]
names to the Board before two months from the last working day of the existing Managing 
Director]. 
(2) In case a vacancy of managing director arises due to unforeseen reasons, the stock 
exchange/ clearing corporation shall forward the new names to the Board within 60 days 
from the date of submission of resignation or such vacation of office.  
134[(III)] Public Interest Directors:- 
(1) 135[The names of the public interest directors shall be forwarded to the Board after the 
approval of the governing board of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing 
corporation. The shareholders’ approval shall not be necessary.  A minimum of two names 
shall be submitted to the Board for each vacancy of public interest directors, two months 
before such vacancy.] 
(2) The stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall ensure that public interest directors are 
selected from diverse field of work. While deciding to propose a particular person as a 
public interest director, the stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall also take into 
account the following factors: 
(a) 136[Qualifications as specified in sub-regulation (14) of regulation 23.] 
137[***] 
 
(c) Atleast one person shall be inducted having experience and background in finance 
/ accounts who may preferably be inducted in the audit committee. 
 
(d) Persons currently holding positions of trust and responsibility in reputed 
organisations or person who have retired from such positions. 
 
(e) Persons who are likely to have interested positions in commercial contracts and 
financial affairs of stock exchanges, may preferably be excluded.  Persons who are 
regular traders/ speculators in the market or are director in the board of the 
promoter entity of the Stock Exchange or Clearing Corporation, shall be excluded. 
 
134 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. 
135 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its substitution sub-clause (1) read as under- 
(1) [The names of public interest directors shall be forwarded to the Board after the approval of the Board of the 
stock exchange/clearing corporation. The shareholders approval shall not be necessary. A minimum of two names 
shall be submitted to the Board for each vacancy of public interest directors.]  
 
136Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023 Prior to its substitution item (a) read as under-  
“(a)Qualification in the area of law, finance, accounting, economics, management, administration or any other area 
relevant to the financial markets.” 
137 Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023.

[Page 77]
(3) 138[Public interest directors shall peruse the relevant laws, code of conduct, etc. and submit 
an undertaking to the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation that 
they  are aware  of their  role, responsibilities  and  obligations.] 
 
(4) 139[In case of reappointment of the public interest director, the recognised stock exchange 
or recognised clearing corporation shall apply to the Board four months before the expiry 
of the term. In addition to the other requirements specified herein, the application for 
reappointment of  the  public  interest  director  shall  be accompanied with, their 
attendance details on meetings of various mandatory committees and  on  the  governing  
board  of  the recognised stock  exchange or recognised clearing  corporation,  performance 
review and the reasons for extension of term.] 
 
(5) 140[The existing public interest director, may continue  holding  the  post for a maximum 
period of three months from the date of expiry of their term or till  a  new  public interest 
director is appointed, whichever is earlier, only if the governing board does not meet the 
mandatory regulatory requirements on its composition.] 
 
 
 
138 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its substitution sub-clause (3) read as under- 
“[(3) Public interest directors shall peruse the relevant laws, code of conduct, code of ethics, etc and submit an 
undertaking to the stock exchange/clearing corporation that they are aware of their role, responsibilities and 
obligations. The stock exchange/clearing corporation shall provide at least seven days of training to every public 
interest director each year. “] 
139 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its substitution sub-clause (4) read as under- 
“[(4)In case of extension of the term of the public interest director or appointment of a new public interest director, 
the stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall apply to the Board two months before the expiry of the term. In addition 
to the other requirements prescribed herein, the application for extension of term of the public interest director shall 
be accompanied with, his attendance details on meetings of various mandatory committees and on the governing 
board of the stock exchange / clearing corporation, performance review and the reasons for extension of term.”]  
140 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its substitution sub-clause (5) read as under- 
“[(5)The existing public interest director shall continue holding the post, till a new public interest director is appointed 
in his place.”]

[Page 78]
141[(IV)]142[Non-independent directors] 
(1) The names of persons to be appointed as 143[ non-independent directors ] shall first be 
approved by the governing board of the stock exchange/ clearing corporation, followed by 
shareholders’ approval before submitting the same to the Board for approval. 
 
144 [The manner of election, appointment, tenure, resignation, vacation, etc. of non-
independent directors shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions applicable to shareholder 
directors under the Companies  Act, 2013 save  as  otherwise  specifically provided  under 
these Regulations  or  in  accordance  with  the  Act and circulars issued thereunder.] 
145[***]  
 
146[(VI)] General conditions on appointment of directors:- 
(1) The stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall complete the appointment process within 
30 days from nomination/approval for directors by the Board and submit a compliance report 
within one week from the date of appointment.  
 
 147[(1A) The limited purpose clearing corporation shall complete the appointment process  
for the managing directors within thirty days from the date of approval of the Reserve 
Bank of India and submit a compliance report within one week from the date of 
appointment.] 
 
 
141 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. 
142 Substituted for the words “shareholder directors” by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023  
143 Ibid. 
144 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its substitution sub-clause (2) read as under- 
“(2) The manner of election, appointment, tenure, resignation, vacation, etc. of shareholder directors shall be governed 
by the Companies Act, 2013 save as otherwise specifically provided under the these Regulations or in accordance 
with the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, circulars issued thereunder.”  
145  Omitted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 30-07-2024. Prior to omission, it read as under: 
 
“(V) Selection of trading members/clearing members on the Advisory Committee to the governing 
board:-  
(1) Prior to the appointment to the advisory committee, the governing board of the stock exchange/ clearing 
corporation shall satisfy itself that the trading members/ clearing members are fit and proper persons 
in terms of regulation 20 of the these Regulations. The governing board shall frame the eligibility 
norms, term of office, cooling off period etc., of members of the advisory committee in consultation 
with the trading members/clearing members of the stock exchange/ clearing corporation.”  
146 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 04-06-2019. 
147 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 12.08.2022.

[Page 79]
(2) In case any other official of the stock exchange/ clearing corporation is appointed on the 
governing board in addition to the Managing Director, the same shall be subject to the 
approval of shareholders and the Board, in that order. 
 
148[(VII) The recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall provide at least 
seven days of training to all directors each year.] 
 
PART - I 
 
Norms for compensation policy 
[See regulation 27 (3)] 
(1) 149[Regulation 27  of  these regulations  mandates  that  the  compensation  policy  for  key 
management  personnel  of  recognised stock  exchange or recognised clearing  corporation  
shall  be  in  accordance with the norms specified by the Board. The compensation norms, 
in this regard, shall be as follows:- 
(a) The variable pay component shall be within a range of 25% to 50% of total pay. 
(b) 50% of the variable pay shall be paid on a deferred basis after a minimum period 
of three years. 
(c) ESOPs  and  other  equity  linked  instruments  in  the  stock  exchange/  clearing 
corporation shall not be offered or provided as part of the compensation for the key 
management personnel. 
(d) The compensation policy shall have malus and clawback arrangements.] 
 
  
(2) Apart from the above, the compensation policy of the stock exchange/ clearing corporation 
shall take into consideration the following: 
(a) financial condition / health of the stock exchange/ clearing corporation, 
(b) average levels of compensation payable to employees in similar ranks, 
(c) shall not contain any provisions regarding incentives to take excessive risks over 
the short term, 
(d) revenues, net profit of the stock exchange/ clearing corporation, 
(e) comparable to the industry standards, 
(f) role and responsibilities of the key management personnel, 
 
148 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. 
149 Substituted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 28-08-2023. Prior to its substitution clause (1) read as under- 
“(1)Regulation 27 of the these Regulations mandates that the compensation policy for key management personnel of 
stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall be in accordance with the norms specified by the Board. The 
compensation norms, in this regard, shall be as follows:- 
(a) The variable pay component shall not exceed one-third of total pay. 
(b) 50% of the variable pay shall be paid on a deferred basis after three years. 
(c) ESOPs and other equity linked instruments in the stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall not be offered or 
provided as part of the compensation for the key management personnel. 
(d) The compensation policy shall have malus and clawback arrangements .”

[Page 80]
(g) periodic review 
(3) At the time of seeking approval of the Board for the appointment of the managing director, 
the stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall seek approval for the compensation of the 
managing director from the Board. The compensation of the Managing Director of a stock 
exchange/clearing corporation already appointed with the approval of the Board shall be 
in accordance with the compensation policy as mentioned above. The same shall be 
submitted to the Board for approval within three months from the date of issue of these 
regulations. 
 
 
 
 
 
PART - J 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
 
(1) Internal manual for conflict resolution:  The stock exchange/clearing corporation shall 
have an internal manual covering the management of conflicts between commercial and 
regulatory functions of the stock exchange/clearing corporation. The stock exchange/ 
clearing corporation shall put in place a policy for comprehensive training and awareness 
of its employees on the various conflicts of interests involved in the functioning of its 
regulatory departments. Further, the entire conflict management framework shall 
periodically be reviewed and be strengthened based on the observations of such review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
150[SCHEDULE – III 
PART – A 
[See regulation 11(1)] 
 
Rate of Regulatory Fee: 
Sr. No. 
(1) 
Annual Turnover (Rupees in 
crores) 
(2) 
 
Amount of fee (Rs.) 
(3) 
 
 
150 Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 23-03-2021.

[Page 81]
1 Less than or equal to 10,000 1,00,000/- 
2 More than 10,000 but less than or 
equal to 1,00,000 
10,00,000/- 
 
3 More than 1,00,000  
but less than or equal to 5,00,000 
50,00,000/- 
 
4 More   than   5,00,000   but   less   than   
or   equal   to  
10,00,000 
1,00,00,000/- 
 
5 More than 10,00,000 1,00,00,000 plus  
0.000012 per cent of the 
annual turnover  
in excess    of  10,00,000 
crores.] 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
AJAY TYAGI 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
Footnote: 
1. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
Regulations, 2018 were published in the Gazette of India on 3rd October 2018 vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/41. 
2. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
Regulations, 2018 were subsequently amended on- 
(a) 4th June, 2019, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing   
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2019/21. 
(b) 17 th April, 2020, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory Sandbox) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2020/10. 
(c) 8th October, 2020, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2020/32. 
(d) 23rd March, 2021, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/12. 
(e) 13 th August, 2021, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2021/44.

[Page 82]
(f) 12th August 2022, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/93. 
(g) 15 th November, 2022, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2022/104. 
(h) 28 th February, 2023, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2023/124. 
(i) 24th July, 2023, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2023/139. 
(j) 22 nd August, 2023, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2023/148. 
(k) 26th April, 2024, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2024/171. 
(1) 10th May, 2024, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2024/174. 
(m) 29th July, 2024, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2024/196. 
(n) 29 th August, 2024, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2024/202. 
(o) 10 th February, 2025, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2025/227. 
(p) 21st March, 2025, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2025/238. 
(q) 30th April, 2025, by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2025/246.

[Page 83]
(r) 22 nd November, 2025 by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide No.  SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2025/276.
