[Page 1]
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(CERTIFICATION OF ASSOCIATED PERSONS IN THE 
SECURITIES MARKETS) REGULATIONS, 2007 
 
[Amended upto July 15, 2025] 
F. No. 11/LC/GN/2007/4567. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read 
with sections 11, 12 and 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely:- 
 
CHAPTER I  
PRELIMINARY 
 
Short Title and Commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Certification of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets) Regulations, 2007. 
 (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
 
Definitions. 
 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: - 
 
(a)  “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 
1992); 
(b)  “agent” means any person who is engaged in the activity of sale or  
distribution of  securities on behalf of an issuer or a distributor for a  
commission or any other consideration; 
(c) “associated person” means a principal or employee of an intermediary or an 
agent or distributor or other natural person engaged in the securities business 
and includes an employee of a 1[foreign portfolio investor]  or a  foreign 
venture capital investor working in India; 
(d) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under 
section 3 of the Act; 
(e) “certificate” means the certificate granted by NISM in accordance with these 
regulations; 
(f) “Continuing Professional Education” (CPE) means any course, programme, 
training programme, activity, conference, seminar that has been accredited or 
                                                      
1 Substituted for "foreign institutional investor" by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 
7-1-2014.

[Page 2]
approved by NISM to enhance the knowledge, skills and professional 
competency of associated persons in the areas of securities, governance and 
ethics; 
(g) “distributor” means any person engaged by an intermediary or an issuer for 
the purpose of sale or distribution of securities; 
(h) “intermediary” means an entity registered under sections 11 or 12 of the Act 
and includes any person required to obtain any membership or approval from 
a stock exchange or a self-regulatory organization; 
(i)  “issuer” means a company or a mutual fund or a collective investment 
scheme which has issued or proposes to issue securities to the public in 
accordance with the relevant regulations or guidelines made by the Board 
and also includes a venture capital fund registered under the relevant 
regulations or guidelines made by the Board; 
(j)  “NISM” means the National Institute of Securities Markets established by 
the Board; 
(k) “principal” means persons who are actively engaged in the management of 
the intermediary’s securities business including super vision, solicitation, 
conduct of business, and includes: 
(1) Sole Proprietors 
(2) Managing Partners and 
 
(3) Whole Time Directors 
(l) “securities” means securities as defined in clause (h) of section 2 of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956). 
(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations shall have the 
meanings, if any, respectively assigned to them by or under the Act or the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or the Companies Act, 1956 (1 
of 1956) or the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996) or rules and regulations 
made thereunder or any amendment thereto or re-enactment thereof. 
 
CHAPTER II 
CERTIFICATION OF ASSOCIATED PERSONS 
Obligation to obtain certificate 
3. 2[(1) The Board may specify such categories of associated persons to obtain 
                                                      
2 Substituted  by  the SEBI  (Certification of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets) (Amendment) Regulations,

[Page 3]
the requisite certificate for engagement or employment with such classes of 
intermediaries, and within such time as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that any notification previously issued by the Board under this sub-
regulation prior to the coming into force of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Certification of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 shall continue to remain in force till such time the notification is 
rescinded.]  
(2) 3[***] 
(3) An associated person who, as on the date specified by the Board, holds a 
certificate for a category as recognized by the Board shall not be required to obtain 
a fresh certificate for the same category during the validity of such certificate. 
(4) The Board for the 4[purposes of sub regulation (1) may] take into consideration: 
(a) whether the associated person as part of his work or operation deals or interacts 
with the investors, issuers or clients of intermediaries; 
(b) whether the associated person deals with assets or funds of investor or 
clients; 
(c) whether the associated person handles redressal of investor grievances; 
(d) whether the associated person is responsible for internal control or risk 
management; 
(e) whether the associated person is responsible for compliance of any rules or 
regulations; 
(f) whether the associated person is engaged in activities that have a bearing on 
operational risk of the intermediary. 
                                                      
2025 w.e.f. 15.07.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under,- 
 
“(1) The Board may by notification in the Official Gazette require such categories of associated persons to obtain 
requisite certificate for engagement or employment with such classes of intermediaries and from such date as may 
be specified in the notification: 
 
Provided that an associated person employed or engaged by an intermediary prior to the date specified 
by the Board may continue to be employed or engaged by the intermediary if he obtains the certificate within two 
years from the said date.” 
3 Omitted by the SEBI (Certification of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 15.07.2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (2) read as follows,- 
 
“(2) An associated person on being employed or engaged by an intermediary on or after the date specified by the 
Board shall obtain the certificate within one year from the date of being employed or engaged by the 
intermediary.” 
4 Substituted  by  the SEBI  (Certification of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 15.07.2025. for the words, symbols and numbers  “purpose of issuing notification under sub regulations 
(1) and (2) shall”.

[Page 4]
Manner of obtaining certificate 
4. (1) Subject to the provisions of this regulation, an associated person may obtain 
the certificate in any of the following manners, namely:- 
(a) by passing a certification examination conducted by any organization or self 
regulatory organization approved or eng aged as may be specified by NISM from 
time to time; or 
(b) by obtaining such number of classroom credits accumulated through attending 
classes on such subjects as may be specified by NISM from time to time; or 
(c) by delivering such number of formal classroom sessions in all or specific 
programmes of continuing professional education as may be specified by NISM 
from time to time. 
(2) An associated person being principal shall obtain the certificate in any of the 
manners specified in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) of sub regulation (1). 
(3) An associated person, other than a principal, who has attained the age of fifty 
years or who has atleast ten years experience in the securities markets in the activities 
mentioned in sub regulation (4) of regulation 3 on the date 5[as may be specified by 
the Board] under sub regulation (1) of regulation 3, shall obtain the certificate in the 
relevant category in the manner specified in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub regulation 
(1). 
(4) An associated person other than those mentioned in sub regulation (2) or sub 
regulation (3) shall obtain the certificate in the manner specified in clause (a) of sub 
regulation (1). 
 
Validity period of certificate 
 
5. (1) The certificate granted under regulation 3 shall be valid for a period of three 
years from the date of the grant of the certificate or revalidation thereof as the case 
may be. 
(2) Upon expiry of the validity of certificate possessed by an associated person, the 
certificate shall be rev alidated for a period of three years at a time, provided the 
associated person successfully completes a programme of continuing professional 
education specified by NISM in accordance with Chapter IV of these regulations. 
 
 
Associated person not to undertake certain activities without a valid certificate 
                                                      
5 Substituted  by  the SEBI  (Certification of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 15.07.2025 for the words “specified in the notification issued”.

[Page 5]
6[6. No associated person engaged in any of the activities mentioned in clauses (a) to 
(f) of sub-regulation (4) of regulation 3 shall continue to be so engaged unless such 
a person holds a valid certificate as specified by the Board under sub regulation (1) 
of regulation 3.] 
 
 
CHAPTER III 
 
POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF NISM 
 
 
Powers and functions of NISM 
7. (1) NISM would perform the functions delegated to it under these regulations or 
as may be delegated by the Board. 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions and the activities 
of NISM under its articles, the functions of NISM in respect of certification for 
associated persons in the securities market shall include putting in place and 
implementing the certification process, procedure and policies. 
 
(3) NISM in consultation with the Board may lay down standards which may – 
(a) specify that all or any portion of such standards shall be applicable to all or any 
category of associated persons worki ng or associated with all or any class of 
intermediaries in securities market; 
(b) specify that no associated person in any such class may be qualified to be 
employed or engaged or continued to be employed or engaged by an intermediary 
unless he is in complian ce with such standards of examination, continuing 
professional education requirements and such other qualifications as NISM in 
consultation with the Board may specify. 
 
Conduct of certification examination and programmes of continuing professional 
education 
8. For conducting certification examination and programme of continuing 
professional education, NISM may: 
                                                      
6 Substituted  by  the SEBI  (Certification of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 15.07.2025. Prior to its substitution, Regulation 6 read as under,- 
 
“6. No associated person engaged in any of the activities mentioned in clauses (a) to (f) of  sub  regulation  
(4)  of  regulation  3  shall  continue  to  be  so  engaged  after  the  date specified  in  sub  r egulation  (1) or  
sub  regulation  (2)  of  regulation  3,  as  the  case  may be, unless such associated person holds a valid 
certificate.”

[Page 6]
(1) accredit, approve or engage any organization or self regulatory organization to 
administer certification examinations. 
(2) accredit, approve or engage any organization or self regulatory organization to 
conduct all or any programme of continuing professional education as may be 
specified from time to time. 
(3) require all associated persons appearing for certification examinations  or 
undergoing programme of continuing professional education to pay reasonable fees 
or charges to defray the costs incurred in conducting such certification examinations 
and programmes of continuing professional education.  
 
 
 
CHAPTER IV 
 
CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS 
 
Continuing Professional Education requirements for associated persons 
9. (1) NISM may specify the requirements for continuing professional education 
(CPE) for associated persons holding certificate and approve the programmes of 
CPE that may be conducted by entities accredited and engaged in accordance with 
regulation 8. 
(2) No intermediary shall permit any associated person to continue and no associated 
person shall continue to perform duties as an associated person unless such person 
has complied with the requirements specified by NISM under sub regulation (1) 
within 3 years from the date of obtaining the certificate or revalidation thereof. 
(3) The requirements of sub regulations (1) and (2) shall apply to associated persons 
who a re engaged in any of the activities mentioned in clauses (a) to (f) of sub 
regulation (4) of regulation 3. 
 
 
Intermediary to ensure participation in continuing professional education 
10. (1) Each intermediary shall be responsible to ensure that its associated persons 
participate in a programme of continuing professional education approved by NISM 
under sub regulation (1) of regulation 9. 
(2) Associated persons shall take all appropriate and reasonable steps to participate 
in a programme of continuing professional education as required by the 
intermediary.

[Page 7]
CHAPTER V 
MISCELLANEOUS 
Certification of associated persons to be pre-condition for registration of 
intermediaries. 
 
11. Compliance with the provisions of these regulations shall be one of the factors 
to be taken into consideration by the Board for the purpose of determining eligibility 
criteria for grant or renewal of certificate of registration to an intermediary under 
the relevant regulations. 
 
 
 
 
               M. DAMODARAN 
 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
[ADVT- III/IV/69 ZB/2007/Exty.]

[Page 8]
Note:  
 
1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Certification of Associated Persons 
in the S ecurities Markets) Regulations, 2007 was published in the Gazette of 
India on October  17,  2007 vide  F. No.11/LC/GN/2007/4567. 
 
2. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Certification of Associated Persons 
in the Securities Markets) Regulations, 2007 was amended on – 
 
(a) January 7, 2014 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014  vide No. LAD -NRO/GN/2013-
14/36/12. 
 
(b) July 15, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Certification 
of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/251. 
 
*** 
 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations.]
