[Page 1]
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (EMPLOYEES' 
SERVICE) REGULATIONS, 2001 
 
[Amended upto July 11, 2026] 
 
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992, the Board hereby makes the following regulations defining 
the terms and conditions of service of its employees: 
 
 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short Title and Commencement 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Employees' Service) Regulations, 2001. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
 
 
Applicability 
2. (1) These regulations shall apply to every whole-time employee appointed by the 
Board under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the Act and to every whole-time employee 
transferred to the Board under [clause (g)]1 of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Act. 
Provided that they shall not apply, except as otherwise provided in these regulations 
or to such extent as may be specifically or generally decided by the Board, to persons 
employed temporarily or on contracts. 
 
[***]2 
 
Definitions 
3. (1) In these regulations, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context— 
(a) "Act" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 
1992). 
(b) "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India constituted under 
Section 3 of the Act. 
(c) "Chairman" means the Chairman of t he Board and, in relation to the powers 
                                                           
1 Substituted for “clause (d)” by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
2 Omitted by SEBI (Em ployees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. Prior to 
the omission, sub-regulation (2) read as under: 
(2) On and from the date of commencement of these regulations— 
(a)  the terms and conditions of the service of the existing w hole-time employees of the Board shall stand 
modified in accordance with the provisions of these regulations. 
(b)  the Securities and Exchange Board of India Service Regulations, 1988 stand repealed. Notwithstanding 
such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said Regulations, shall be deemed to have been done 
or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations.

[Page 2]
exercisable by him, includes whole- time member of the Board or a Committee 
of Executive Directors or Executive Director or any other officer to whom the 
powers under these regulations may be delegated by the Chairman. 
(d) "compensatory allowance" means an a llowance granted to meet expenditure 
necessitated by the special circumstances in which the duty is performed. 
(e) "Competent Authority" means, 
 (i) [In the case of officers, the Chairman ]3 , which expression shall also 
include whole- time member of the Board or Executive Director, in regard 
to any matter or power to be dealt with or exercisable by the Chairman 
under these Regulations, but which are delegated to him. 
(ii) In the case of all other employees, concerned ) Executive Director, which 
expression shall also include, any officer lower in rank, in regard to any 
matter or power to b e dealt with or exercised by the Executive Director 
under these Regulations, but which are delegated to him. 
4[(f) "Dependent" includes: 
(i) “Dependent children” which means children of an employee who are eligible 
for receiving medical or Leave Fare Concession benefit from SEBI; 
(ii) “Substantially dependent” which means a person who is included in family of 
the employee for receiving medical or Leave Fare Concession benefit from 
SEBI. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this definition, a person who is otherwise not 
dependent on the employee but is added in the Group Mediclaim Policy of SEBI as a 
non-dependent for which the premium is borne separately by the employee shall not 
be considered as ‘substantially dependent’.] 
5[(fa) "deputation" means temporary posting to a nother organisation wherein the 
accrual and disbursement of remuneration including pay, allowances and 
perquisites would be borne by the borrowing organisation.] 
(g) "duty" includes —- 
(i) Service as a probationer; 
(ii) Period during which an employee is on joining time or training authorised 
by the Board; 
(iii) Period spent on causal leave duly authorised by the competent authority. 
 
6[(ga) "external assignment" means the temporary posting to another organisation, including 
secondment, tour of duty and sta ff exchange programme,  wherein the accrual and 
disbursement of remuneration including pay, allowances and perquisites would be borne by 
the Board.] 
 
                                                           
3 Substituted for “ The Chairman in the case of officers ” by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022 
4 Substituted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 , w.e.f. 11.7.2026. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (f) read as under: 
“(f) "Dependent" means a person who is wholly dependent upon the employee and whose  monthly income 
doesn't exceed the limits as may be specified by the Chairman, from time to time.” 
5 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.6.2018  
6 Inserted ibid.

[Page 3]
7[(h) "family members" means 
(i) Spouse of the employee; 
(ii) Dependent children of the employee, including Step chi ldren and Adopted 
children; 
(iii) Any person for whom the employee serves as legal guardian and substantially 
dependent on such employee; and 
(iv) Any other person related to by blood or marriage to the employee or his spouse, 
and substantially dependent on such employee.] 
8[(ha) "Financial investment" means investment or deposit in any financial assets.] 
(i) "leave pay" means the monthly pay which the employee would have drawn while on 
duty but for proceeding on leave. 
9[(ia) "Non-permitted Investment" means investment that is not permitted to be made by an 
employee during his period of service with the Board and shall mean the following: – 
(i) Investment in equity; 
(ii) Investment in any instrument convertible into equity; and 
(iii) Investment or trading in derivatives of equity or commodity. 
Explanation: It is clarified that the following i nvestment shall not be included within the 
definition of non-permitted investment, namely: – 
(i) Investment through a pooled investment vehicle, if the scheme of such pooled  
investment vehicle is professionally managed by an entity which is regulated by 
any of the financial sector regulator; and 
(ii) Investment in units of InVIT and REIT; 
 (ib) "OEC" means Office of Ethics and Compliance in SEBI. 
(j) "Pay" means the amount drawn by an employee as- 
(i) Pay which had been sanctioned for a post held by him substantively or in 
an officiating capacity, or to which he is  entitled by reason of his position 
in a cadre; 
(ii) Special pay and personal pay; 
(iii) Any other amount which may be specially classified as pay by the Board; 
                                                           
7 Substituted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 , w.e.f. 11.7.2026. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (h) read as under: 
“(h) "family" means 
(i) In the case of male employee, his wife, whether residing with him or not, but does not include a legally 
separated wife and in case of a woman employee her husband, whether residing with her or not, but does not 
include a legally separated husband. 
(ii) Children or step children of the employee whether residing with him or not and  dependent  wholly  on  
such  employee  but  doe s  not  include children  or  step  children  of  whose  custody  the  employee  has  
been deprived of by or under any law; and 
(iii) Any other person related to, by blood or marriage to the employee or to his spouse and wholly dependent 
upon such employee.” 
8 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 11.7.2026. 
9 Ibid.

[Page 4]
10[(ja) “Permitted investment” means any financial investment which is not a non -
permitted investment.]  
(k) "Personal pay" means an additional pay granted to an employee— 
(i) To save him for a loss of substantive pay in respect of a permanent post 
due to a revision of pay or to any reduction of such substantive pay 
otherwise than as a disciplinary measure; or 
(ii) In exceptional circumstances, on other personal considerations; 
11[(ka) “Professional interest” means any inter est on account of em ployment or 
engagement as advisor or consultant during the last  three years with an entity not 
being employment or  engagement with the Central Government, State 
Government, Government or Statutory Organization. 
(kb) “Relational interest” means any interest  on a ccount of association as family 
member or relative. 
(kc) “Relative” means relative as defined under section 2(77) of the Companies Act 
2013.”] 
(l) "special allowance" means an addition, in the nature of an allowance, to the pay 
attached to a post or of an employee, granted at the discretion of the Board or its 
duly appointed authority in consideration of the specially arduous nature of the 
duties attached to the post or required to be performed by the employee; 
(m) "special pay" means an addition to the pay of a post of ) an employee granted at 
the discretion of the Board or its duly appointed authority in consideration of a 
specific addition to the work or responsibility; 
(n) "substantive pay" means the pay to which an employee is entitled on account of a 
post to which he has been appointed substantively or by reason of his substantive 
position in a cadre; 
Save as otherwise provided,— 
(o) "year" means a continuous period of twelve months commencing from 1st day 
of April of a year and ending with 31st day of March of the next year. 
(p) "service" includes the period during which an employee is on duty as well as on 
leave duly authorised by a competent authority, but does not include any period 
during which an employee is absent from duty without permission or overstays 
his leave, unless specifically permitted by the competent authority. 
(2) All words and expressions used herein and not defi ned in t hese Regulations but 
defined in Securities and Exchange Board of India  Act, 1992 (15 of 1992),  the 
regulations made thereunder and Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 
1956) shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts unless 
otherwise provided in these Regulations. 
(3) For the purposes of these regulations, [words importing the masculine gender shall 
be taken to include females and transgender persons] 12 wherever the context warrants 
and singular will also include plural. 
 
 
                                                           
10 Ibid. 
11 Ibid. 
12 Substituted for “the terms 'he', 'him', 'his' and 'himself' shall also refer to 'she', 'her' and 'herself'” by the 
SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022.

[Page 5]
Chairman's power to delegate 
4. The Chairman may delegate to the whole-time member of the Board or Executive 
Director or Committee of Executive Directors or any Officer subject to such conditions 
as he may think fit to impose, all or any of the powers conferred upon him by these 
Regulations. 
 
 
Power to implement 
5. (1) [ Subject to the provisions of these regula tions,]13 the power to implement these 
regulations vests in the Chairman who is also empowered to issue such 
administrative instructions as may be necessary to give effect to and carry out the 
purposes of these regulations or otherwise to secure effective control of the employees 
and the decision of the Chairman shall be final and binding on the employees. 
(2) The powers exercisable by an auth ority under these regulations shall also be 
exercisable by any authority superior to the authority first mentioned. 
14[(3) The Board may at i ts discretion waive or relax the strict application of the 
provisions of the regulations]. 
 
 
CHAPTER II 
APPOINTMENTS, PROBATION AND 
TERMINATION OF SERVICE 
Classification and appointment of whole-time employees 
6. (1) The whole-time employees of the Board shall be classified as follows: 
(a) Officers (Grades A, B, C, D, E, F and Executive Director); 
(b) Secretarial Staff, Accounts Assistants and Library Assistants (Grades A, 
B, C); 
15[(ba) Junior Secretarial Assistant, Junior Accounts Assistant 16[Junior Library 
Assistant and Junior engineer]] 
(c) 17[***] 
(d)   Messenger, Cook, Driver, Messenger-cum-Driver, Messenger-cum- 
General Assistant. 
18[(2) The Board shall specify from time to time the pay of each post or group of posts 
and shall grant approval for sanction of posts at the level of Executive Director while 
the Chairman shall be the Competent Authority for sanction of posts up to Grade F.] 
                                                           
13 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022 . 
14 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.r.e.f. 20-6-2008. 
15 Inserted by SEBI (Employees'  Service) (Second amendment)  Regulation,  2010, w.e.f. 12-
10- 
2010. 
16 Substituted  for  "and  Junior  Library  Assistant"  by  SEBI  (Employees'  Service)  
(Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 2-5-2012. 
17 Omitted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations 2010, w.r.e.f. 30-1-2008. 
18 Substituted  by the SEBI (Employees'  Service) (Amendment)  Regulations,  2010, w.r.e.f. 
30-1-2008.

[Page 6]
(3) All appointments in any grade or post shall be made by the competent authority at 
its discretion and no person shall have a right to be appointed to any particular post or 
grade. 
 
 
Recruitment 
(4) 19[(a) Recruitment shall be made at the entry level in Grade A or in Grade B or in 
such grade as may be spe cified by the  competent authority by such method as the 
Chairman may determine, including by Campus Selection: 
Provided that, in special circumstances, where no suitable candidate is available in the 
Board's service or the exigencies of work require, recruitment may also be made at a 
higher grade.] 
(b) Mode of recruitment, Educational and other qualifications, age limit, experience 
and other incidental matters related to t he recruitment [***]20 in the Board's service 
shall be as specified in the Schedule. 
(c) A competitive examination, including 21[written tests]  and interview, shall be 
conducted by the Competent Authority or by an outside agency engaged by the Board 
for the purpose of recruitment. 
Provided that Competent Authority may relax any or all of these requirements, for 
reasons to be recorded in writing 22[:] 
23[Provided further that interview and/or group discussion shall not be conducted for the 
purpose of recruitment of whole time employees other than officers.] 
24[(d) Competent authority shall constitute a selection committee, comprising such 
                                                           
19 Substituted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.r.e.f. 17-2-
2007. Prior to its substitution, clause (a) read as under:- 
"(4)(a) Recruitment  shall be made at the entry level in Grade A or in Grade B or such grade 
as may be specified by the competent authority or in special circumstances where no  suitable  
candidate  is  available  in  the  Board's  service,  or  the  exigencies  of  work require, at a 
higher grade by issuing newspaper advertisement. 
Provided that  the  Competent  Authority  may  recruit  trainee  officers  and  such  trainee 
officers  may  be  considered  for  regular  appointment  on  successful  completion  of  the 
training period and subject to passing a departmental test and interview." 
20 The words “and promotion” omitted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
21 Substituted for the words “ a written test and/or group discussion” by the SEBI (Employees’ 
Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13.08.2018.  
22 Substituted  for  ";"  by  SEBI  (Employees'  Service)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
23 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-
2016. 
24 Substituted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 07-02-2024. 
Prior to its substitution, clause (d) read as under:- 
(d) Competent authority shall constitute a selection committee, comprising such number of 
persons and outside expert as he may determine for interviewing the candidates.  
Provided *[  ] that appointment to the post of Executive Director s hall be approved by the Board 
before an offer of appointment is issued to the selected candidate. 
 
*Words “that in the case of appoin tment to the post of Executive Director, the Selection Committee 
shall consist of Chairman and two other members of the Board, constituted by the Chairman and

[Page 7]
number of persons and outside experts as may be determined for recruitment and 
promotion:  
Provided that for recruitment at the level of Executive Director on deputation or 
contract, the Competent authority shall constitute a search -cum-selection committee, 
comprising such number of persons and outside experts as may be determined:  
Provided further that the appointment to the post of Executive Director shall be 
approved by the Board before an offer of appointment is issued to the selected 
candidate.]  
 
 
Temporary/Contract employees 
7. (1)(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in these Regulations, the competent 
authority may appoint persons on a temporary basis due to exigencies of work, on 
suitable terms and conditions, subject to such general or special directions, if any 
issued by the Board from time to time. 
(b) The terms and conditions of service of the temporary employees shall be specified 
by the competent authority but in no case shall the terms and conditions so specified 
be more favourable t han those laid down in these regulations for an appointment 
carrying equivalent status or responsibility. 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, Competent authority may 
appoint persons on contract basis due to exigencies of w ork on suitable terms and 
conditions. 
(3) Competent authority may, due to exigencies of work and/or non-availability of 
suitable candidates within the Board's service, take on deputation such employees in 
Grade D and above from Govt. or any other Organisations for a specified period and 
their terms and conditions of deputation, shall be specified by the competent authority 
in consultation with the lending organisation. 
(4) In the case of appointment to the post of Executive Director by deputation or on 
contract, the appointment shall be approved by the Board before an offer of appointment 
is issued to the person to be appointed on deputation or on contract. 
 
 
Appointments to be made on minimum pay 
8. All initial appointments shall be made on the minimum pay of the grade to which 
the appointment is made, provided the Chairman may keeping in view the higher 
academic qualifications, special experience of value to the Board and salary in the 
previous job, grant additional increments, not exceeding four in the scale of pay fixed 
for the grade in which the appointment is made. 
 
 
Re-employment in Board 
9. (1) No person who has ceased to be in the service of the Board except by way of 
removal or dismissal or compulsory retirement may be re-employed without the specific 
sanction of, and on such terms and conditions as may be specified by the 
Board. 
(2) Except as otherwise provided by the Board at the time of his re-employment, these 
                                                                                                                                                                                
such” omitted by the SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 
13.08.2018.

[Page 8]
Regulations shall apply to a person who is re-employed in the Board, as if he had 
entered the service for the first time on the date of his re-employment. 
 
 
Probation 
10. (1) An employee directly appointed in any of the specified scales of pay 25[***] shall 
be on probation for a period of 26[two] year. 
27[(1A) An employee promoted to one grade/scale to another shall be on probation for a 
period of one year.] 
(2) Chairman may, if he considers it necessary extend the period of probation upto a 
period of one year for unsatisfactory performance or reduce or dispense with period of 
probation for reasons to be recorded in writing. 
(3) Save as otherwise provided in this regulation, an employee shall be deemed to 
have been confirmed in the post to which he has been appointed or, as the case may 
be, promoted on successful completion of the period of probation. 
(4) During the first month of his probation, an employee may be discharged without 
assigning any reasons at one day's notice and thereafter at one month's notice or by 
payment of substantive pay for one day or one month as the case may be in lieu 
thereof. 
(5) Without prejudice to the provisions of Regulation 17, an employee selected from 
the Board's employees and on probation shall be liable to be reverted to his previous 
grade without notice or pay in lieu thereof if, in the opinion of the competent authority, 
he fails to show satisfactory performance during the period of his probation. 
 
Commencement of service 
11. Except as otherwise provided by or under these Regulations, "service" of an 
employee shall be deemed to commence from the working day on which an employee 
reports for duty in an appointment covered by these Regulations at the place and time 
intimated to him by the appointing authority. 
Provided that if he reports after noon, his service shall commence from the next 
following working day. 
 
 
Determination of service by notice 
12. (1) An employee shall not leave or discontinue his service in the Board without 
first giving notice to the Competent Authority, in writing of his intention to leave or 
discontinue the service. 
(2) The period of notice required shall be,— 
(a) In the case of employees holding the post on regular basis, three months; 
(b) In the case of employees holding the post on probation, one month; 
Provided that Chairman may waive the period of notice required under this sub- 
regulation for the reasons to be recorded in writing. 
                                                           
25 Words “ or promoted to one grade/scale to another” omitted by the SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13.08.2018. 
26 Substituted for “one” ibid. 
27 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13.08.2018.

[Page 9]
Provided further that the employee shall not be entitled to set off any leave earned and 
not availed of by him against the period of such notice. 
(3) In the case of breach by an employee of the provisions of the sub-regulation (2), 
he shall be liable to pay to the Board as compensation a sum equal to his substantive 
pay for the period of notice required of him. 
Provided that the payment of such compensation may be waived by the Chairman, at 
his discretion. 
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), the resignation of an 
employee shall not be effective unless it is accepted by the competent authority. The 
competent authority may refuse to accept a resignation; 
(a) If disciplinary proceedings have been instituted against or are proposed to be 
instituted against the employee; 
(b) If the employee is under an obligation to serve the ) Board for a specified period 
which has not yet expired; 
(c) The employee owes the Board any sums of money; or 
(d) For any other sufficient ground to be recorded in writing. 
Explanation 1.—Disciplinary proceedings shall be deemed to be instituted against an 
employee for the purposes of this sub-regulation if he has been placed under suspension 
under these Regulations or any notice has been issued to him asking him to show 
cause why disciplinary proceedings should not be instituted against him or any 
charge-sheet has been issued to him under these Regulations and will be deemed to be 
pending till final orders are passed by the competent authority. 
Explanation 2.—The expression "month" used in this  Regulation shall be reckoned 
according to the English calendar and shall commence from the day following that on 
which notice is given by the employee or the Board as the case may be. 
Explanation 3.—A notice given by an employee under sub-regulation (1) above shall 
be deemed to be proper only if he remains on duty during the period of the notice. 
 
 
 
Superannuation and Retirement 
13. (1) An employee shall retire at 60 years of age. 
Provided that the Board may retire any employee on, or at any time after the completion 
of 55 years of age or 30 years of total service, whichever is earlier, by giving him 
[three months’ notice in writing subject to due process as approved by the Competent 
Authority.]28 
(2) An employee, who attains the age of supperannuation on any day other than the 
first day of any calendar month, shall retire on the last day of the month in which he 
completed his age of retirement. 
(3) An employee may also, if he so desires, and subject to terms of appointment to the 
contrary, if any, retire from service on completion of 50 years of age or 20 years of 
service in the Board, by giving three months notice to the Board in writing. 
29[(3A) The Board may also offer a scheme subject to such terms and conditions as it 
                                                           
28 Substituted for “three months notice in writing.” by the the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Thi rd 
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
29 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 10-10-2011.

[Page 10]
may specify, to its whole-time employees for voluntary retirement from the services 
of the Board.] 
(4) When an employee retires from service either under the provisions of the proviso 
to sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (3), the Board may consider grant of 
compensation on such scale and terms as may be determined by it from time to time. 
The Board while determining the terms shall take into account all rele vant factors 
including the balance of service left to a retiring employee. 
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in these Regulations, where an employee has 
ordinary leave earned but not availed of as on the date of retirement, he may, at his 
option, 
(a) be permitted to avail of leave subject to a maximum of ten months in respect of 
leave earned under these Regulations and in that case the employee will be 
deemed to have retired from service on the expiry of the leave; 
or 
(b) be paid a l umpsum amount which would be equivalent to pay as defined in 
Regulation 3(1)(j) of these Regulations as on the date of his retirement, for the 
unavailed ordinary leave earned subject to maximum of ten  months plus all 
allowances normally admissible to the employee concerned during ordinary leave, 
after which he shall retire. 
Explanation :—"Date of Retirement" means the date on which the employee attains 
the age of superannuation in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation or the 
date on which he is retired by the Board under sub-regulation (1) of the Regulation or 
the date on which the employee voluntarily retires in terms of sub-regulation (3) 30[or 
sub-regulations (3A)] of the Regulation as the case may be. 
Execution of Bond, etc. 
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in these Regulations, the Board [shall]31 have 
the right to obtain undertakings/bonds from an employee for payment of liquidated 
damages relating to deputation of training or his failure to complete the required 
number of years of service in a particular post, as may be determined by the Board 
from time to time. 
 
 
 
CHAPTER III 
RECORD OF SERVICE, SENIORITY, PROMOTION AND REVERSION 
Record of Service 
14. A record of service shall be maintained by the Board in respect of each employee 
at such place or places and shall be kept in such form and shall contain such information 
as may be specified from time to time by the Chairman. 
 
 
Seniority 
                                                           
30 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 10-10-2011. 
31 Substituted for “will”  by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022.

[Page 11]
15. 32[(l) An employee confirmed in the services of the Board shall ordinarily rank for 
seniority in his/her grade, according to the date of his/her confirmation in that grade, 
as follows : 
(a) All India direct recruitment through open competition/internal promotions through 
switch over to the officer cadre - an employee on probation shall ordinarily rank 
for seniority among the employees selected along with him/her in the s ame 
batch according to the ranking assigned to him/her at the time of selection. 
(b) Through Campus Selection - an employee on probation shall ordinarily rank for 
seniority among the employees selected along with him/her in the same batch 
according to t he ranking assigned to him/her upon completion of inductions 
training or departmental examination as decided by the competent authority.] 
(2) The Board shall, each year, prepare a list of the employees in its service showing 
their names in the order of their  seniority containing such other particulars as the 
Chairman may determine and a co py of such list shall be made available to each 
employee. 
 
Promotion 
 
[16. All promotions, upgradation and switchover shall be made at the discretion of the Board 
 and governed by the policies laid down by the Competent Authority from time to time.]33 
                                                           
32 Substituted  by SEBI (Employees'  Service)  Regulations,  2010,  w.r.e.f.  30-1-2008.  Prior to 
its substitutions sub-regulations (1) read as under : 
"(1) An employee confirmed in the services of the Board shall ordinarily rank for seniority in  
his  grade  according  to  his  date  of  confirmation  in  the  grade  and  an  employee  on 
probation shall ordinarily rank for seniority among the employees selected along with him in 
the same batch according to the ranking assigned to him at the time of selection." 
33 Substituted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations,  2022, w.e.f. 30 -12-2022.  
Prior to its substitution, the Regulation read as under: 
“16. (1) All promotions shall be made at the discretion of the Board and notwithstanding his seniority in a 
grade no employee shall have a right to be promoted to any particular post or grade.   
Provided that an employee, who has put in a minimum of 3 year s of service in any post or grade, when 
promotion opportunities arise, shall be eligible for consideration of promotion to a higher post.  
Provided further that an employee in any grade in the cadre of secretarial staff, accounts assistants and library 
assistants who possess requisite qualifications may be considered for switch over to the corresponding grade 
in the Officer cadre against such vacancies, which shall be 10% of total vacancies arising in a calendar year, 
as may be notified by the Competent Auth ority, subject to such employees qualifying in a departmental test 
conducted by the Competent Authority or by an outside agency engaged by the Board and interview to be 
conducted by the Competent Authority for this purpose.  
Provided further that an employ ee working as Junior Secretarial Assistant, Junior Accounts Assistant, Junior 
Library Assistant or Junior Engineer, who has completed minimum seven years of service and possesses the 
requisite qualifications for Officer Grade A as given in these Regulation s, may be considered for switch over 
to Grade A in the Officer cadre against the vacancies, which shall be within the overall 10% vacancies as 
mentioned in the second proviso and as may be notified by the Competent Authority subject to such 
employee qualifying in the departmental test conducted by the Competent Authority or by an outside agency 
engaged by the Board and interview to be conducted by the Competent Authority for this purpose.  
 (2) All promotions shall be against vacancies in sanctioned posts de clared by the competent authority except 
promotions up to Officer Grade C and shall be based on—  
(a) Seniority, merit and suitability in the cases of Officers and Secretarial Staff, Accounts Assistants , Library 
Assistants, Junior Secretarial Assistants, Junior Accounts Assistants, Junior Library Assistants and Junior 
Engineers;  
(b) Seniority and merit in the cases of Messenger, Cook, Driver, Messenger -cum-Driver, Messenger -cum-
General Assistant.

[Page 12]
Reversion 
17. An employee promoted from one grade to another shall be liable to be reverted 
without notice at any time within one year of such promotion. 
 
CHAPTER IV 
PAY, ALLOWANCES AND OTHER BENEFITS 
Pay and allowances 
18. (1) The Board, shall at its discretion, determine from time to time the pay and 
allowances applicable to different categories of employees. 
Other benefits 
(2) The Board, may at its discretion, from time to time frame such schemes and allow 
such other benefits for the welfare of the employees at such terms and conditions as it 
may determine. 
 
 
 
When accrue and payable 
19. Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, pay and allowances shall accrue 
from the commencement of the service of an employee, and shall become payable on 
the afternoon of the last working day of each month in respect of the service performed 
during the said month. 
Provided that an employee proceeding on ordinary leave other than extraordinary leave 
for a period not less than one month may be paid in advance one month's pay and 
allowances if he applies therefor. 
 
 
 
When not payable for part of a month 
20. Pay and allowances shall not be payable for a part of a month to an employee who 
leaves or discontinues his service without due notice during a month, unless such 
notice has been waived by the competent authority. 
 
 
 
When allowance to cease 
21. Pay and allowances shall cease to accrue from the date as an employee ceases to 
be in service. 
In the case of an employee dismissed, removed or compulsorily retired from the 
Board's service, the pay and allowances shall cease from the date of his  dismissal, 
removal or compulsory retirement. In the case of an employee who dies while in 
service, they shall cease from the day following that on which the death occurs. 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                
Provided that in assessing the suitability of the employee  for promotion, the performance of the employee in 
the post or grade, from where he is being considered for promotion, shall be considered.  
(3) For the purpose of promotions, Chairman shall constitute a Departmental Promotion Committee 
comprising such num ber of persons including external expert which may conduct interviews, if so decided, 
for selection of employees for considering promotion to the next grade or post.  
Provided that in the case of promotions to the post of Executive Director, the Committee shall consist of 
Chairman and two other members of the Board.

[Page 13]
Admissibility of allowances 
22. Allowances shall only be payable to employees who are actually at that time 
fulfilling the conditions subject to which they are admissible. 
 
 
 
Compensatory allowance 
23. Notwithstanding the fact that the whole-time of an employee is at the disposal of 
the Board, the Board may grant compensatory allowance, not counting as pay, to an 
employee who is required to work on holidays or to put in extra hours on week days 
in connection with the Board's work. 
The rate at, and the circumstances in which such allowance may be drawn shall be 
determined by the Chairman. 
 
 
Increments 
24. (1) In an incremental scale, the increment shall accrue on an annual basis or each 
stage of that scale, whether such service be probationary, officiating or substantive. 
Provided that the benefit of increment shall be admissible from the first of the month 
in which it accrues, irrespective of the actual date of its accrual. 
(2) Officiating service in a higher  grade will count for increments in an employee's 
substantive grade as well as in the higher grade in which he is officiating and if there 
is an intermediate grade between the two in which he would have officiated had he 
not been appointed to officiate in the higher grade, also in the intermediate grade, but 
the period during which an employee is on le ave without pay will not count for 
increment unless so authorised by the competent authority for reasons to be recorded 
in writing. 
(3) Sanction to draw increments will be given by the Competent authority. 
(4) No increment may be withheld except as a disciplinary measure under Regulation 
79 and each order withholding an increment shall state the period for which it is 
withheld and whether the postponement shall have the effect of p ostponing future 
increments: 
Provided that if in an incremental scale there is an efficiency bar, an employee shall 
not draw increments above that bar until he has been certified fit to  do so by the 
Competent Authority. On each occasion on which an employee is allowed to pass an 
efficiency bar which has previously been enforced against him, he shall be placed in 
the incremental scale at such stage as the authority competent to remove the bar may 
fix provided that such stage shall not be higher than that at which he would draw his 
pay if the bar had not been enforced against him and further that no increments 
granted on the removal of a bar shall have a retrospective effect. 
(5) The Chairman may, grant stagnation increments to an employee who has reached 
the last stage in the concerned scale. 
 
Refixation of pay on promotion 
25. (1) The pay of an employee promoted from one grade to another shall be initially 
fixed at the minimum in the scale of higher grade, the difference between the pay so 
fixed and the substantive pay of the employee in the old scale, if the later be more, be

[Page 14]
treated as personal pay; 
On confirmation 
(2) On confirmation in the higher grade, the pay of an (2) employee shall be fixed at 
the stage in the higher grade which is next above his substantive pay in the old scale 
as on the date of confirmation, if such pay be higher than the pay drawn by him at the 
time of confirmation. 
 
34[Grant of increment on promotion grade 
 
25 A. (1) Without prejudice to anything contained in regulation 24, where an 
employee is promoted to a higher grade on or after November 1, 2012, - 
(a) before reaching the maximum of the incremental scale in the pre -promotional 
grade, the date of the next increment in the promotional grade shall be the date of 
increment as existing in the pre-promotional grade.  
(b) after having reached the maximum of the incremental scale in the pre -
promotional grade, the date of the next increment in promotional grade shall be 
one year from the date of promotion:  
Provided that after having reached t he maximum of the incremental scale in 
the pre -promotional grade, in cases where the officer promoted was due to 
receive, any post scale benefits such as personal allowance and stagnation 
increment in the pre -promotional grade within one year from the date  of 
actual promotion, the date of increment in the promotional grade shall be the 
date of accrual of such post scale benefit.]  
 
Domicile 
26. (1) Every employee shall on his appointment declare his domicile in writing to the 
Board and if such domicile is not his place of birth he must establish the same to the 
satisfaction of the Competent Authority. 
(2) No employee who has once indicated his domicile, shall be (2) allowed to alter the 
same unless he satisfies the Board that the change is bonafide and in no case may an 
employee be permitted to change his domicile in such a manner as to increase the cost 
to the Board of any such concession. 
 
 
                                                           
34 Inserted by SEBI  (Employees'  Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2017 w..e.f. 13-7-2017.

[Page 15]
Kinds of leave 
CHAPTER V 
LEAVE AND JOINING TIME 
27. (1) Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, the following kinds of leave 
may be granted to an employee: 
(a) Casual leave and Special Casual leave 
(b) Ordinary leave 
(c) Sick leave and Special leave 
(d) Maternity leave 1[or Peternity Leave, as the case may be] 
(e) Extraordinary leave 
(f) Accident leave 
(g) Other special leave as may be specified by the Board 
(2) Pay during leave shall be drawn at full or half rate of leave pay, according to the 
kind of leave availed of by the employee provided that no pay shall be admissible 
during the extraordinary leave. 
 
 
 
Authorities empowered to grant leave 
28. The power to grant leave shall vest in the competent authority. All applications for 
leave shall be addressed by the employee to the authority empowered to grant leave.

[Page 16]
Power to refuse leave or recall an employee on leave 
29. (1) Leave cannot be claimed as a matter of right. When the exigencies of the 
service so require, discretion to refuse or revoke leave of any description is reserved 
to the authority empowered to grant it, and an employee already on leave may be 
recalled by that authority when it considers necessary in the interests of the service of 
the Board. 
Lapse of leave on cessation of service 
(2) Save as otherwise specifically provided in these (2) Regulations, leave earned by 
an employee lapses on the date on which he ceases to be in service. 
Earlier return from leave 
(3) Unless he is permitted to do so by the authority which (3) granted his leave, an 
employee on leave may not return to duty more than 14 days before the expiry of the 
period of leave granted to him. 
 
 
 
Commencement and termination of leave 
30. (1) The first day of an employee's leave is the working day succeeding that upon 
which he takes over charge. 
(2) The last day of an employee's leave is the working day preceding that upon which 
he reports his return to duty. 
 
 
 
Obligation to furnish leave address 
31. An employee shall, before proceeding on leave, intimate to the competent authority 
his address with telephone number (if any) while on leave, and shall keep the said 
authority informed of any change in the address previously furnished. 
 
 
 
Station to which an employee should report on return 
32. An employee on leave shall, unless otherwise instructed to the contrary, return for 
duty to the place at which he was last stationed. 
 
 
 
When medical certificate of fitness may be demanded 
33. A competent authority may require an employee who has availed himself leave 
above three days for reasons of health to produce a medical certificate of fitness 
before he resumes duty even though such leave was not actually granted on a medical 
certificate. 
 
 
Leave not admissible to an employee under suspension 
34. Leave may not be granted to an employee under suspension or against whom 
disciplinary proceedings are pending.

[Page 17]
Casual leave 
35. (1) An employee shall be eligible for casual leave upto a maximum of 12 working 
days in each calendar year provided that no employee may take casual leave for less 
than ½ day or more than 5 days at a time. 
Provided that public holidays may not be combined with such leave in such a way as 
to increase the absence at any one time beyond twelve days. Any casual leave which 
is extended beyond these limits will be treated as Ordinary Leave in respect of the 
entire period. 
Casual leave cannot be suffixed or prefixed with any other kind of leave except with 
special casual leave. 
(2) No casual leave may be avai led of, except with prior sanction of t he competent 
authority. 
Provided that if for any genuine reason, it is not possible for an employee to obtain 
such permission in advance, he shall intimate his absence to such authority within 24 
hours. 
Provided further that such authority may condone the delay, if any, in this behalf if he 
is satisfied that an employee was not in a position to intimate his absence for reasons 
beyond his control. 
(3) When an employee joins the service of the Board at any time during the year, his 
entitlement to casual leave shall be at the rate of one day per month during that 
calendar year. 
(4) The casual leave, which has not been availed of at the end of the calendar year, 
shall be credited to the extent of 50% of such leave not availed of, to the ordinary 
leave account of the concerned employee. Fraction, if any, in such cases shall be 
ignored. 
 
 
Special Casual Leave 
36. Notwithstanding anything contained in Regulation 35, the Chairman may permit 
the grant of special casual leave. 
(1) When the absence from duty is necessitated by orders from the authorities 
empowered to issue  quarantine orders not to attend office in consequence of any 
infectious disease in the family or household of any employee; 
(2) When the absence of an employee is due to his having sustained a bodily injury 
while on duty and the absence is supported by certificate from the Medical Officer of 
the Board or registered medical practitioner; 
(3) When the absence is necessitated by reason of an employee who is a member of 
the Auxiliary Force, India, Home Guard, A R P or other Civil Defence Organization 
or any other organisation of a similar nature having to attend an annual camp or a 
training course; or 
(4) When there are other exceptional circumstances necessitating the grant of special 
casual leave in excess of the specified limits; 
(5) For undergoing family planning operation, subject to production of medical 
certificate :- 
(a) Female Employees : 
(i) 14 days for tubectomy/laproscopy

[Page 18]
(ii) 1 day on the day on which the husband undergoes vasectomy. 
(iii) 1 day on the day of IUD insertion/reinsertion. 
(b) Male Employees : 
(i) 6 days for vasectomy operation 
(ii) 7 days when the wife undergoes tubectomy/laproscopy. 
Provided that special casual leave sanctioned under this sub-regulation may be clubbed 
with any other leave, except casual leave. 
Explanation 1.—Except in respect of special casual leave sanctioned in terms of sub- 
regulation (4) of this regulation, the total period of casual leave granted under Regulation 
35(1) and the special casual leave granted under this regulation in any one calendar 
year shall in no case exceed 45 days and if the grant of leave under the said 
Regulations shall result in such total period being extended beyond 45 days, any period 
of absence in excess of 45 days shall be treated, subject to the provisions of Regulation 
43(2) as Ordinary, Sick, Special or Extraordinary Leave, as the employee concerned 
may request and as may be admissible to him. 
Explanation 2.—Except in respect of special casual leave sanctioned in terms of sub- 
regulation (4) of this regulation, in computing casual leave under Regulation 35 (1) 
and special casual leave under this Regulation, intervening public holidays shall not 
be reckoned as day of casual leave or special casual leave as the case may be. 
35[(6) Subject to the exigencies of work and approval by the competent authority, 
differently abled employees, as defined in the Rights of Persons wi th Disabilities Act, 
2016, may be granted, in a calendar year, a maximum of ten days of special casual leave 
for participating in Conference, Seminars, Trainings or Workshops related to disability 
and development related programs and a maximum of four days  of special casual leave 
for specific requirements relating to the disability of the employee: 
Provided that the grant of special casual leave under this sub -regulation shall be subject 
to such terms and conditions as may be decided by the competent author ity from time to 
time.] 
 
36[Special hardship leave [***] 37 
                                                           
35 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 
13.08.2018. 
36 Regulation  36A  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Employees'  Service)  (Amendment)  
Regulations, 
2015, w.e.f. 26-2-2015.  Prior to its substitution,  said Regulation,  as inserted  by the 
SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 8-10-2013, read as 
under : "36A.  Special casual leave for child care.—(1)  Special casual leave for child care 
may be granted  to  a female  employee  who  is a mother,  for  taking  care  of two  eldest  
surviving children  who have not attained  the age of twelve  years,  for a period  of 
fifteen  days  per annum for each child. 
(2) The special casual leave for child care will be admissible  for looking after the 
various needs   of   the   child   like   medical   needs,   educational   needs   and   other   child   
rearing requirements. 
(3) Special casual leave for child care cannot be clubbed with any other type of leave and the 
intervening holidays during the period of leave would also be counted for the purposes of 
the said leave. 
(4) The special casual leave for child care may be availed in multiple spells in one

[Page 19]
36A. (1) Eligibility. 
(a) [An]38 employee confirmed in the services of the Board and having completed 
five years of service in the Board, is eligible to apply for special hardship 
leave: 
Provided that special hardship leave before completion of five years of 
service may be sanctioned in e xceptional circumstances for the purposes 
provided in sub-regulation (2), on an application by such [***]39 employee 
and upon recommendation of the approving authority in accordance with sub-
regulation (4); 
(b) A female employee may avail special hardship leave as extension of maternity 
leave irrespective of completion of service of five years in the Board; 
(c) Approval of the special hardship leave shall be the sole discretion of the 
Board, depending upon the grounds including the administrative exigencies 
of the Board, reason for which the leave is sought for and merits of individual 
cases; 
(d) [An]40 employee shall not proceed on special hardship leave without the 
approval of approving authority in accordance with sub-regulation (4); 
(e) Special hardship leave shall not be available to [***]41 employees,— 
(i) serving abroad under special arrangements or bonds; 
(ii) who have executed service bonds and have not completed it; 
(iii)against whom disciplinary proceedings are proposed or pending or 
who are under suspension, including [***]42 employees against whom 
action has been initiated by Government agencies or other  law 
enforcement authorities; 
(iv)appointed on contract basis; 
(v) falling under any other category as may be intimated to the employees 
from time to time. 
                                                                                                                                                                                
calendar year and the unavailed leave would lapse at the end of every calendar year. 
(5) Leave fare concession cannot be availed during the period of the special casual leave 
for child care. 
(6) The employee can proceed on special casual leave for child care only after obtaining 
the approval of such leave from the competent authority : 
Provided that in case of any genuine exigency, if it is not possible for any employee to obtain 
such permission in advance, she shall intimate her absence to such authority within 24 hours: 
Provided  further that such authority  may condone  the delay, if any, in this behalf if he is 
satisfied that an employee was not in position to intimate her absence for reasons beyond her 
control. 
Explanation.—For the purpose of this regulation, the term 'child' shall mean both natural and 
adopted.” 
37 The words “for female employees ” omitted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
38 Substituted for “A female” by the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
39 Omitted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 
30.12.2022. 
40 Substituted for “A female” by  the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
41 The word “female” omitted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
42 The word “female” omitted by the SEBI (Empl oyees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022.

[Page 20]
Purpose of special hardship leave. 
(2) [An]43 employee, eligible under sub-regulation (1), may apply for special hardship 
leave for the purposes of taking care of the family or children or health grounds of self 
or dependent family members. 
Period of special hardship leave. 
(3) Special hardship leave may be availed for a period not exceeding two years 
during the entire service, and may be availed for a minimum period of three months 
once in a year. 
Approving authority for special hardship leave. 
(4) Approving authority for special hardship leave for [***]44 employees in grade 'D' 
and above, shall be the Whole Time Member in charge of the concerned department 
where such [***]45 employee is serving, and in other cases, the approving authority 
shall be t he Executive Director in charge of the concerned department where such 
[***]46 employee is serving. 
Other conditions. 
(5) Other conditions relating to special hardship leave shall be as follows,— 
(a) Such leave shall be without pay, perquisites and allowances except house 
allowance 47[and claims for medical treatment availed in India:  
Explanation:- For the purpose of this clause, claim for the medical treatment, 
shall include , medical insurance, claim from Medical Assistance Fund, non -
policy medical claims, eye refraction and annual health check -up]; 
(b) An employee on special hardship leave shall be allowed to retain the 
accommodation provided by the Board or receive the house allowance, as the 
case may be; 
(c) Application for special hardship leave shall be submitted by the employee in 
grade 'D' and above, at least two months before the date from which leave is 
to be availed, and in all other case at least one month before the date from 
which leave is to be availed: 
Provided that the approving authority shall have discretion to relax the period 
specified in this clause in appropriate cases; 
(d) For computing the eligibility to avail special hardship leave, completed years 
of services shall be reckoned; 
(e) Special hardship leave once approved, shall be irrevocable; 
(f) Before expiry of the approved special hardship leave, [an]48 employee shall not 
resume for duty without permission from the approving authority; 
(g) Special hardship leave may be availed irrespective of balance of leaves of 
                                                           
43 Substituted for “A female” by the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
44 The word “female” omitted by the SEBI (Employees' Service ) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
45 The word “female” omitted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
46 The word “female” omitted by the SEBI (Employees ’ Service) (Third Amendment) Re gulations, 2022, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
47 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2019 w.e.f. May 08, 2019. 
48 Substituted for “A female” by the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regu lations, 
2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022.

[Page 21]
any other category, and may be combined with any categories of leave except 
casual leave, special casual leave, Special casual leave in lieu of joining time, 
and special leave ; 
(h) Special hardship leave shall not be granted for avoiding transfer or posting or 
placement, etc.; 
(i) [An]49 employee, who leaves the services of the Board by resignation or 
voluntary retirement during the special hardship leave shall be liable to pay 
compensation to the Board, which shall be a sum equal to [his]50 substantive 
pay for the period of notice as required of [his]51 in terms of these regulations; 
52[(ia) [An]53 employee, who leaves the services of the Board by way of resignation or 
voluntary retirement during the special hardship leave or within five years after 
resuming office after availing such leave, shall be liable to pay to the Board, an 
amount equal to the entire house allowance and medical claims paid during 
such leave: 
Provided that after approval of the competent authority, based on requisite 
documentary evidence, examination and certification by the Medical Officer of 
the Board, the payment of said amount from the [***]54 employee, who has 
availed special hardship leave on health grounds of self and that being the 
reason for which [he]55 is unable to resume office may be waived;] 
(j) Board may cancel the special hardship leave and recall the [***]56 employee 
and proceed in the matter as deemed fit, in case it is found that such employee 
is undertaking or engaged in, directly or indirectly, any trade or employment or 
business or profession; 
(k) Special hardship leave shall be counted as service for the purpose of seniority; 
(l) For the period of special hardship leave availed, no other leave shall be 
credited to such employee; 
(m)[An]57 employee shall make [himself]58 available during the period of special 
hardship leave as witness in any investigation, court case, departmental enquiry 
or any other such proceeding and shall be paid travelling and halting 
allowance, as the case may be; 
                                                           
49 Substituted for “A female” by the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
50 Substituted for “her” by the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 20 22, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
51 Substituted for “her” by the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
52 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2019 w.e.f. May 08, 2019. 
53 Substituted for “A female” by the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
54 The word “female” omitted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
55 Substituted for “she” by the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
56 The word “female” omitted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
57 Substituted for “female” by the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
58 Substituted for “herself” by the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022.

[Page 22]
(n) Board may cancel the special hardship leave at any time and recall the [***]59 
employees in case of exigencies; 
(o) Board shall not approve, during the special hardship leave period, any fresh 
loan or advance of whatever nature; 
(p) [An]60 employee on special hardship leave shall submit the return of immovable 
or movable or valuable property as required; 
(q) [An]61 employee availing special hardship leave shall intimate to the Board, 
[his]62 local address for correspondences and also inform any changes in 
address for communication, from time to time. ] 
 
 
Ordinary leave 
37. (1) 63[ ( i ) ]Every employee shall be entitled to ordinary leave at the rate of 30 
days for every year of service subject to a maximum accumulation of 64[300 
days] .65[(ii) ]The leave so earned shall be credited to the ordinary leave account of 
the employee half yearly on 1st April and 1st October respectively in each year at 
the rate of 15 days for every 6 months of service rendered by such employee. 
66[(iii) Where an employ ee has to his credit 286 days or more of ordinary leaves, the 
further credit of 15 days ordinary leave shall be done at the beginning of each half year 
(on 1st April or 1st October) to the employee’s additional ordinary leave account and the 
ordinary leaves availed during the six month period thereafter ending on 30th September 
or 31st March shall be deducted from such account:  
Provided that if ordinary leaves sanctioned is for less than 15 days, the balance shall be 
credited to the ordinary leave account subject to the ceiling of 300 days at the close of 
that half year: 
Provided further that an employee shall have his ordinary leaves sanctioned and availed 
before 30th September or 31st March as leaves beyond 300 days will lapse on 30th 
September or 31st March, as the case may be.] 
67[(iv)] No employee, shall earn ordinary leave when he is on leave other than 
casual leave for a continuous period of more than 6 months. If an employee renders 
less than 6 months of service in any half year, he shall be credited with one day for 
every 11 days of duty. 
68[(v)] Fractions of a day of earned leave shall be taken as full day if amounting to half 
a day or more, and shall be ignored if amounting to less than half a day. 
                                                           
59 Word “female” omitted by  the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 
30.12.2022. 
60 Substituted for “A female” by the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
61 Substituted for “A female” by the by the S EBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
62 Substituted for “her” by the by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
63 Clause numbered by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 27.4.2018.  
64 Substituted in place of the words, figure and symbols “ten months (300 days)” by the SEBI (Employees' 
Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 27.4.2018. 
65 Clause numbered by the SEBI (Employees' Servic e) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 
27.4.2018. 
66 Inserted ibid.  
67 Clause numbered ibid. 
68 Clause numbered ibid.

[Page 23]
(2) The period of ordinary leave, which can be taken at one time by an employee shall 
not be less than five days. 
Provided that the employee may take less than 5 days when he does not have casual 
leave to his credit. 
(3) Application for grant of ordinary leave shall be submitted fifteen days in advance 
from the date of availing, to the Competent Authority. 
(4) An employee on ordinary leave shall draw pay equal to leave pay. 
 
 
Encashment of Ordinary Leave 
38. (1) An employee may be permitted to encash ordinary leave once 69[every 
calendar year] for a minimum period of 10 days and a maximum period of 30 days: 
70[Provided the employee has to his credit a balance of 180 days ordinary leaves or more 
after encashment.] 
 
(2) If an employee dies during the Board's service or who is declared by the Medical 
Officer of the Board to be completely and permanently incapacitated for further service, 
he (legal heirs in case of death of an employee) may be granted by the competent 
authority, cash equivalent to unavailed earned leave to his credit on the date of 
death, invalidation from service, as the case may be. 
71[(3) An employee of the Board who [upon completion of probation under sub -
regulation (1) of regulation 10 of these regulations,] 72 resigns from service after giving 
proper notice of resignation, in terms of regulation 12, may be permitted encashment 
of half of the period of ordinary leave at his/her credit as on  the date of resignation 
subject to a maximum of five months ordinary leave.] 
 
 
 
Sick leave 
39. (1) Every employee shall be entitled to sick leave, on production of medical 
certificate, at the rate of 20 days for every calendar year of service subject to a 
maximum of 540 days during the full period of his service. Additional sick leave may 
be granted if it is considered necessary and advisable in the interest of the Board. 
Provided further that in the case of an employee, the production of a medical certificate 
may not be insisted upon if sick leave to be granted does not exceed three days. 
(2) Sick leave shall be on half pay. 
Provided that where an employee has served the Board for at least a period of three 
years, he may, if he  so requests, be permitted to avail, during the full period of his 
                                                           
69 Substituted in place of the words “in two years” by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 27.4.2018. 
70 Substituted ibid for the following provisos- 
“Provided that at the time of such encashment the employee avails of ordinary leave for a minimum period of 
10 days and also has to his credit a balance of leave which shall not be less than the leave so encashed.  
Provided further that availing of ordinary leave for a minimum period of 10 days is not required in the case 
of resignation by the employee subject to the condition that the employee gives required notice, as the case 
may be, under these regulations.” 
71 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Services) (Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.r.e.f. 3-5-2003. 
72 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Services) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30 -12-2022.

[Page 24]
service, sick leave on leave pay upto a maximum period of nine months and such 
leave on leave pay shall be entered in his sick leave account as twice the amount of 
leave taken by him. 
(3) An employee may be granted sick leave during the first year of his service on pro- 
rata basis at the discretion of the Competent Authority. 
 
 
Maternity leave 
40. (1) Maternity leave, which shall be on leave pay, may be granted to a female 
employee upto a period of 180 days on full pay at a time and not more than 360 days 
during the entire period of service. 
(2) Female employees undergoing hysterectomy operation may also claim maternity 
leave for a period not exceeding 20 days (including stay in hospital) within the overall 
ceiling of 360 days. 
(3) Leave not exceeding 45 days may be granted to a female employee during the 
entire service of t he female employee in case of miscarriage including abortion on 
production of medical certificate within the overall ceiling of 360 days. 
(4) A competent authority may grant leave of any other kind admissible to the female 
employee in combination with, or in continuation of maternity leave if the request for 
its grant is supported by requisite medical certificate. 
[(5) A commissioning mother having less than two surviving children, who commissions 
a child through the applicable legal process, may be granted maternity leave for a period 
not exceeding 180 days within the overall admissibility of 360 days of maternity leave.  
Explanation 1. - A “commissioning mother” has been defined in section 3(ba) of the 
Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 (53 of 1961) as “a biological mother who uses her egg to 
create an embryo implanted in any other woman”.  
Explanation 2. - For the purpose of this sub -regulation, the period of maternity leave 
shall be calculated from the date the custody of the child is given to the commissioning 
mother. 
(6) A female employee with less than two survivi ng children, on adoption of a child 
below the age of one year in accordance with the applicable law, may be granted 
maternity leave for a period of 180 days within the overall admissibility of 360 days of 
maternity leave, from the date the custody of the child is given to her.  
Provided that the employee furnishes to the Board, the adoption deed or any other 
document as may be sought by the Board.]73 
 
 
74[Paternity Leave 
40A. (1) Paternity Leave may be granted to a male Staff member (natural father), with 
less than two surviving children, during the confinement of his wife for child birth, for 
a period of fifteen days per child, from fifteen days prior to the delivery or up to six 
months from the date of such delivery. 
(2) Paternity Leave may also be granted to a male employee (adoptive father), with 
less than two surviving children, who has adopted a child through proper legal process, 
for a period of fifteen days per child within six months from the date of adoption. 
                                                           
73 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Services) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30-12-2022. 
74 Inserted by SEBI (Employees Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 2-5-2012.

[Page 25]
[(2A) Paternity Leave for a period of fift een days may also be granted to a male 
employee with less than two surviving children in a case where fatherhood is a result of 
surrogacy, within six months from the day the custody of the child is given to him.] 75 
(3) During the period of Paternity Leave, the employee shall be paid leave pay. 
(4) Paternity Leave may be combined with any kind of leave other than Casual Leave 
and Special Casual Leave. 
(5) The employee shall avail the entire Paternity Leave at one time during the eligible 
period as mentioned in sub-regulations (1) and (2), as the case may be.] 
 
Accident leave 
41. (1) Accident leave may be granted to an employee who sustains an injury in the 
course of the performance of his duties, for the period for which leave is certified by 
the Medical Officer of the Board to be necessary for recovery from the injury. 
(2) Accident leave would also be admissible to an employee, who is on tour / duty in 
connection with the official work of the Board, subject to the period for which leave is 
necessary for recovery from the injury being certified either by the Board's Medical 
Officer, or a Government/Municipal doctor. 
(3) The competent authority may, at the option of the employee, grant any other kind 
of l eave as admissible to h im for the period so medically certified and also in 
combination with or in continuation of any accident leave sanctioned. 
(4) An employee on accident leave shall for the first four months thereof, draw a pay 
equal to his leave pay and half leave pay for the rest of the period. 
 
 
Extraordinary leave 
42. (1) Extraordinary leave may be granted to an employee when no other leave is due 
to him and when, having regard to his length of service, sick or special leave is not 
considered justified by the competent authority. Except in exceptional circumstances, 
the duration of extraordinary leave shall not exceed 90 days on any one occasion and 
360 days during the entire period of an employee's service. 
(2) The competent authority may grant extraordinary leave in combination with, or in 
continuation of leave of any other kind admissible to the employee, and may commute 
retrospectively periods of absence without leave into extraordinary leave. 
(3) No pay and allowances are admissible during the period of extraordinary leave 
and the period spent on such leave shall not count for increments: 
Provided that, in cases where the sanctioning authority is satisfied that the leave was 
taken on account of illness or for any other cause beyond the employee's control, it 
may direct that the period of extraordinary leave may count for increments. 
 
 
Special leave 
43. (1) During the full period of his service an employee may be granted special leave 
on private affairs for a period not exceeding 360 days. Special leave may not be 
availed of if ordinary leave is admissible; 
                                                           
75 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Services) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30 -12-2022.

[Page 26]
Provided that an employee may be granted special leave if he is suffering from a 
disease requiring prolonged treatment and he has no ordinary leave and sick leave to 
his credit and is also not eligible. 
(2) In case an employee is absent from duty on account of quarantine, the Board may, 
at t he request of the  employee, treat such absence upto a maximum of 90 d ays as 
ordinary, sick or special leave if such leave is otherwise permissible. Special leave 
under the sub-regulation may be availed of even if ordinary leave is admissible. 
 
 
Pay during special leave 
44. Special leave shall be on half leave pay, which shall be reduced, except with the 
special sanction of the Chairman, to one quarter of leave pay after six months.

[Page 27]
Joining Time 
45. (1) Joining time may be granted to an employee by the Chairman to enable the 
employee— 
(a) to join a new post to which he is appointed while on duty in his old post; or 
(b) to join a new post on return from leave of not more than four months' duration 
although the duration of leave exceeds four months, the employee has not had 
sufficient notice of his appointment to the new post. 
(2) Joining time shall not be granted when no change in the headquarters of an employee 
is involved. 
Pay and allowances during joining time 
(3) The pay and allowances of an  employee on joining time shall be determined in 
accordance with the Regulations. 
Period for which admissible 
(4) Joining time which may be allowed to an employee shall not exceed seven days, 
exclusive of the number of days spent on travelling. 
How calculated 
(5) In calculating joining time admissible to an employee, the day on which he is 
relieved from his old post shall be excluded but public holidays following the day of 
his relief shall be included in the joining time. 
Special casual leave in lieu of joining time 
(6) Where an employee on transfer from one centre to another does not avail of the 
joining time or his joining time has been curtailed due to exigencies of Board's service, 
he may be allowed to avail of the Special Casual Leave to the extent of unavailed 
joining time subject to a maximum of 7 days, at any time after the date of reporting 
at new centre but before the completion of a period of six months or such other 
extended period as may be agreed to by  the B oard for submitting supplementary 
travelling allowance bill in respect of his family and personal effects provided he has 
advised the office to this effect before proceeding on transfer. 
Saturdays/Sundays/holidays prefixed to Special Casual Leave in lieu of joining time 
shall be excluded but Saturdays/Sundays/holidays intervening such Special Casual 
Leave shall be reckoned as Special Casual Leave. 
(7) Where an employee on transfer from one station to another does not avail the 
entire joining time including special casual leave referred to in sub-regulation (6) or 
the same has been curtailed due to exigencies of Board's Service, the unavailed joining 
time will be added to the Ordinary Leave account of the employee. 
 
 
Overstayal after joining time 
46. An employee who does not join his post within the joining time allowed to him 
shall be deemed to have committed a breach of Regulation 60. 
 
CHAPTER VI 
CONDUCT, DISCIPLINE AND APPEALS 
 
Scope of an employee's service 
47. Unless it be otherwise distinctly provided, the whole time of an employee shall be 
at the disposal of the Board and he shall serve the Board in its business in such

[Page 28]
capacity and at such place as he may from time to time be directed. 
 
 
Liability to abide by Regulations and Orders 
48. Every employee shall conform to and abide by these Regulations and shall observe, 
comply with and obey all orders and directions which may from time to time be given 
to him by any person or persons under whose jurisdiction, superintendence or control 
he may for the time being be placed. 
 
 
Obligation to maintain secrecy 
49. (1) Every employee shall maintain strictest secrecy regarding the Board's affairs 
and shall not divulge or disclose, directly or indirectly, any information of a confidential 
nature or relating to the working of the Board to a member of the public or of  the 
Board's employees or to his friends or relatives, unless compelled to do so by judicial or 
other authority, or unless instructed to do so by a superior officer in the discharge of his 
duties. 
(2) No employee shall make use of any  information emanating from the Board or 
otherwise which has come to his knowledge in the discharge of his official duties for 
his personal benefit or for the benefit of his friends or relatives. 
(3) No employee shall communicate any unpublished price sensitive information to 
any other person except when required to do so in the course of his official duty. 
(4) Every employee, including those who are on contract/temporary basis shall, before 
entering upon his duties, make a declaration of fidelity and secrecy in the FORM – A 
annexed to these Regulations. 
 
 
Employees to promote Board's interest 
50. (1) Every employee shall serve the Board honestly and faithfully and shall use his 
utmost endeavors to promote the interests of the Board and shall show utmost courtesy 
and attention in all transactions and dealings with the public, between the officers of 
Government and the Board. 
(2) Every employee shall at all times :— 
(a) maintain absolute integrity, good conduct and discipline ; 
(b) maintain devotion and diligence to duty ; and 
(c) do nothing which is unbecoming of an employee / a public servant. 
(3) No employee shall in his official dealings with the public or otherwise adopt 
dilatory tactics or wilfully cause delays in disposal of the work assigned to him. 
(4) No employee, shall, in the performance of his official duties or in the exercise of 
powers conferred on him, act otherwise than in his best judgement except when he is 
acting under the direction of his superior. 
(5) Every employee shall take all possible steps to ensure the integrity and devotion to 
duty of all persons for the time being under his control and authority. 
 
 
Prohibition against participation in politics and standing for election 
51. No employee shall take active part in politics or in any political demonstration, or 
stand for election as member, of a Municipal Council, District Board or any other 
Local Body or any Legislative Body.

[Page 29]
Prohibition against joining certain associations and strikes, etc. 
52. No employee who is not a 'workman' within the meaning of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 shall— 
(a) Become or continue to be a member or officebearer of, or be otherwise directly 
or indirectly associated with, any trade union of employees of the Board who 
are 'workmen' within the meaning of that Act, or a federation of such trade 
unions; or 
(b) Resort to, or in any way abet, any form of strike or participate in any violent, 
unseemly or indecent demonstration in connection with any matter pertaining to 
his conditions of service or the conditions of service of any other employee of 
the Board. 
 
 
Contributions to [print, social and digital / electronic media or any other media in 
public domain]76  
53. (1) No employee may contribute to [print, social and digital / electronic media or 
any other media available in the public domain] 77 without the prior sanction of the 
Competent Authority or without such sanction make public or publish any document, 
paper or information which may come in his possession in his official capacity. 
(2) No employee shall except with the previous sanction of the (2) competent authority 
publish or cause to be published any book or any similar printed matter of which he 
is the author or not or deliver talk or lecture in any public meeting or otherwise. 
Provided that no such sanction is required, if such broadcast or contribution or 
publication is of a purely literary, artistic, scientific, professional, cultural, educational, 
religious or social character. 
[Provided further that wherever such sanction is granted by the C ompetent Authority 
for employee’s contribution to any print, social and digital / electronic media or any 
other media available in the public domain, he shall provide a disclaimer to the effect 
that the views expressed therein are his own and are not endor sed by the Board.] 78 
 
 
Employee not to seek outside employment 
54. 79[(1)] No employee shall accept, solicit, or seek any outside employment or office, 
whether stipendiary or honorary, without the previous sanction of the Chairman. 
80[(2) An employee shall di sclose all negotiation or agreement f or any future 
employment within one month from the end of the month in which such negotiation or 
agreement takes place.] 
 
 
Employment after retirement 
                                                           
76 Substituted for “the press” by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 
30.12.2022. 
77 Substituted for “the press” by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 
30.12.2022. 
78 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
79 Renumbered by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 11.7.2026. 
80 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 11.7.2026.

[Page 30]
55. (1) No employee of the Board who has retired from service shall, within a period 
of 81[one]  years from the date when he finally ceases to be in the Board's service, 
accept or undertake a commercial employment except with the previous approval in 
writing of the competent authority. 
Provided that an employee who was permitted by the Competent authority to take up 
commercial employment during his leave preparatory to retirement or during refused 
leave shall not be required to obtain subsequent permission for his continuance in 
such employment after retirement. 
(2) For the purpose of this Regulation, "commercial (2) employment" means: 
(a) Employment in any capacity including that of an  agent under a Company, 
Cooperative Society, firm or individual engaged in trade, or commercial, industrial 
or professional business and also includes a directorship of such a company and 
partnership of such firm but does not include employment under a body corporate 
wholly or substantially held or controlled by the Board. 
(b) Setting up a practice, either independently or as partner of a firm, as adviser or 
consultant in matters in respect of which the retired officer— 
(i) has no professional qualifications and the matters in respect of which the 
practice is to be set up or is carried  on are relatable to his official 
knowledge or experience, or 
(ii) the matters in respect of which such practice is to be set up are such as 
are likely to give his clients an unfair advantage by reason of his previous 
official position, or 
(c) Undertaking work involving liaison or contact with the offices or officers of the 
Board. 
Explanation : For the purpose of this clause, "employment under a cooperative society" 
includes the holding of any office, whether elective or otherwise such as that of 
President, Chairman, Manager, Secretary, Treasurer and the like, by whatever name 
called in such society. 
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), no employee of the 
Board, including employees on contract shall within a period of 82[ o n e ]  years from 
the date that he final ly ceases to be in the  Board's service, accept or undertake  an 
employment or be in any manner associated with an intermediary registered with the 
Board, except with the prior written approval of the Competent Authority: 
83[Provided that the employee would be required to seek fresh approval from  the Board 
in the event of seeking employment with another intermediary registered with the Board 
or associating in any other manner with another intermediary registered with the Board, 
within the period of one year:] 
Provided 84[further that] before refusing approval the competent authority shall give a 
hearing to the concerned employee. A copy of the decision taken shall be communicated 
by the Competent Authority to the concerned employee. 
                                                           
81 Substituted for “two” by SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 
13.08.2018. 
82 Substituted for “two” by the SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 
13.08.2018. 
83 Inserted ibid. 
84 Substituted for “, however” by the SEBI (Emplo yees’ Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 13.08.2018.

[Page 31]
85[(4)]The competent authority while granting such approval shall satisfy itself regarding 
the appropriateness of granting the approval, having regard to dealing which the 
employee may have had with the said intermediary while in the services of the Board; 
and may impose such conditions as may be necessary having regard to the circumstances 
of the case including 86[prohibiting the employee from representing the intermediary in 
any manner before the Board.] 
87[***]  
88[(5)] The approval/refusal under this regulation shall be communicated to the 
employee by the Competent Authority within a per iod of 90 days from the date of 
receipt of the application for  such approval, failing  which the approval shall be 
deemed to have been granted. 
89[(6) An employee leaving the service on account of retirement or  resignation or 
otherwise shall not appear before or against the Board on behalf of any other person in 
any matter or quasi -judicial proceeding (including  adjudication) or settlement or 
approval matter for a period of two years from the date of being relieved from service. ] 
 
Employment of family members with an intermediary registered with the Board 
56. (1) No employee shall use his position or influence directly or indirectly to secure 
employment in any  intermediary registered with the Board, of any person related, 
whether by blood or marriage to the employee or to the employee's wife or husband, 
whether such a person is dependent on the employee or not. 
(2) Every employee shall report to the competent authority in case his son/daughter or 
any other member of his family accepts employment in any intermediary registered 
with the Board with which he has official dealings or in any undertaking having 
official dealings with the Board. 
 
 
Giving evidence 
57. (1) Save as provided in sub-regulation (3) no employee shall, except with the 
previous approval of the competent authority, give evidence in connection with any 
enquiry conducted by any person, committee or authority. 
(2) Where any approval has been accorded under sub-regulation (1) no employee 
giving such evidence shall criticize the policy or any action of the Central Government 
or State Government or the Board. 
(3) Nothing in this regulation shall apply to any evidence given (a) at any enquiry 
before an authority appointed by the Central Government, State Government, Parliament 
or a State Legislature; or (b) in any judicial enquiry; or (c) at any departmental enquiry 
ordered by the competent authority. 
 
                                                           
85 Numbered by the SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13.08.2018.  
86 Clause (a) added to the provision by the SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Third Amendmen t) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 13.08.2018. 
87 Omitted by the SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13.08.2018. 
Prior to the omission, clause (b) read as –  
“(b)  Seeking a fresh approval from the Board in the event of the employee accepting or undertaking 
employment or associating in any manner with another intermediary registered with the Board, during the 
period of two years.” 
88 Renumbered by the SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13.08.2018.  
89 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 11.7.2026.

[Page 32]
Seeking to influence 
58. No employee shall bring or attempt to bring any political or other outside influence 
to bear upon any superior authority to further his interests in respect of matters 
pertaining to his services in the Board. 
 
 
Part-time work 
59. No employee shall undertake part-time work for a private or public body or a 
private person, or acce pt any fee therefor, without the sanction of the competent 
authority which shall grant the sanction only in exceptional cases when it is satisfied 
that the work can be underta ken without detriment to his  official duties and 
responsibilities. The competent authority may, in cases in which it thinks fit to grant 
such sanction, stipulate that any fees received by the employee for undertaking the 
work shall be paid, in whole or in part, to the Board. 
 
 
Employee not to be absent from duty without permission or be late in attendance 
60. (1) An employee shall not absent himself from his duties without having first 
obtained the permission of the competent authority, nor shall absent himself in case of 
sickness or accident without submitting a requisite medical certificate. 
Provided that in the case of temporary indisposition, the production of a medical 
certificate may, at the discretion of the competent authority, be dispensed with. 
(2) An employee who absents himself/herself from duty without leave or overstays his 
leave, except under circumstances beyond his control  for which he must tender a 
satisfactory explanation, shall not be entitled to draw any pay and allowances during 
such absence or overstayal, and shall further be liable to such disciplinary measures as 
the competent authority may impose. The period of such absence or overstay may, if 
not followed by discharge under Regulation 10(4) or compulsory retirement or removal 
or dismissal under Regulation 79, be treated as period spent on extraordinary leave. 
(3) An employee who is habitually late in attendance shall, in addition to such other 
penalty as the competent authority may deem fit to impose, have one day of casual 
leave forfeited for every three days he is late in a month. Where such an employee has 
no casual leave due to him, the period of leave to be so forfeited may be treated as 
ordinary or extraordinary leave as the competent authority may determine. 
 
 
Absence from station 
61. An employee, if so required by the competent authority, must not absent himself 
from his station overnight without obtaining previous sanction of his superior. 
 
 
Acceptance of gifts 
62. (1) An employee shall not solicit or accept any gift or permit any member of his 
family or any person acting in his behalf to accept any gift from any person with 
whom the employee is likely to have official dealings either directly or indirectly or 
from any subordinate employee. Trivial gifts like 90[mementos, souvenirs, bouquets,] 
                                                           
90 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 11.7.2026.

[Page 33]
small packets of sweets, diaries, calendars 91[*** ] may, however, be exempted. 
Explanation.—The expression "gift" shall include free transport, boarding, lodging or 
other service or any other pecuniary advantage when provided by any person other 
than a 92[***] relative or a personal friend having no official dealings with the 
employee or with the Board. 
Note 1: A casual meal, lift or other social hospitality shall not be deemed to be a gift. 
Note 2: An employee shall avoid acceptance of lavish or frequent hospitality from any 
individual or concern having official dealings with the employee or with the Board. 
(2) On occasions such as marriages, anniversaries, funerals or (2) religious functions 
when the making of gifts is in conformity with the prevailing religious or social 
practice, an employee may accept gifts from his personal friends having no official 
dealing with the employee or with the Board but he shall make a report to the competent 
authority if the value of such gifts 93[received from any one person ] exceeds 
94[Rs.50,000]. 
(3) An employee shall not— 
(a) Give or take or abet the giving or taking of dowry; or 
(b) Demand directly or indirectly from the parents or guardians of a bride or 
bridegroom, as the case may be, any 'dowry' . 
Explanation.—In this Regulation, the term 'dowry' shall have the same meaning as in 
the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. 
 
 
Private trading 
 
63. No employee shall engage in any commercial business or pursue it either on his own 
account or as agent for others, nor act as an agent for an insurance company nor shall he 
be connected with the formation or management of a joint stock company.  
Explanation.—Canvassing by an e mployee in support of the business of insurance 
agency or commission agency carried on or managed by a member of his family shall 
be deemed to be a breach of this Regulation. 
 
 
95[Restrictions on investments 
                                                           
91 The words “ on the occasion of Diwali and New Year” omitted by the S EBI (Employees' Service) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 11.7.2026. 
92 The word  “near” omitted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 
11.7.2026. 
93 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 11.7.2026. 
94 Substituted for the words and sy mbols “Rs. 10,000 ” by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 11.7.2026. 
 
95 Substituted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 , w.e.f. 11.7.2026. Prior to 
its substitution, regulation 64 read as under: 
“64. No employee shall make any direct or indirect invest ment in commodity derivatives, equity and equity 
related  instruments  including  convertible  debentures  and  warrants  except  units  of Mutual F unds, non 
convertible bonds and non-convertible debentures, and in rights issues in respect of the shares already held by 
them. These restrictions would apply to: 
(i)  Investments of the employees ; 
(ii)  Investments of dependent children or other wards managed by the employee as a guardian

[Page 34]
64. (1) An employee or his family members shall not make any fresh investment in non-
permitted investment, during the period of service of the employee with the Board. 
(2) Investment by an employee during the period of service with  the Board, in products 
offered by any one S EBI-regulated entity, which is professionally managing pooled 
investment vehicle, shall not exceed 25% of his total acquisition cost of all  the financial 
investments held by him as on last day of the previous financial year or on th e date of 
joining, whichever is later.] 
 
96[Relaxation from restriction on investment by family during the period of service 
of the employee 
64A. (1) Restriction in sub -regulation (1) of regulation 64 sh all not be applicable where 
the spouse of the employee acquires equity in empl oyee stock options plan which is part 
of the pay package of the spouse and to also disposal of such equity.  
Explanation: In case of technical violations arising out of act ions of spouse and/or 
dependent family members, such an inadvertent action shall not be treated as 
misconduct by the employee affecting his career progression. However, in appropriate 
cases, penalty imposed may be in the nature of monetary penalty.  
(2) Restriction in sub -regulation (1) of regulation 64 shall not  be applicable where the 
family members of the employee - 
(i) use discretionary portfolio management servi ces where the fund manager acts 
independently to manage the investments; or  
(ii) acquire or dispose unlisted security as part of the  private business or investment 
activity of such family member. 
(3) Upon listing of unlisted security referred to in sub -regulation 2(ii) of this regulation, 
family members of the employee may continue to hold them or disp ose them or manage 
them through discretionary portfolio management services (wher e the fund manager 
acts independently).  
 
Options for the employee to deal with non -permitted investment held at the time of  
joining 
64B. (1) At the time of joining the Board, the employee m ay choose any of the 
followings option(s) with respect to non -permitted investment held by him, namely: - 
(i) Liquidate the non -permitted investment;  
(ii) Freeze the non -permitted investment till the time  of completion of his period 
of service with the Board;  
(iii) Disclose a trading plan to OEC for selling of  these non-permitted investment 
during his period of service in accordance with Regul ation 5 of SEBI (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; or  
(iv) Sell the non -permitted investment during his p eriod of service with the Board 
without a trading plan but wi th prior approval of the OEC.  
(2) With respect to investment in equity or instrument convertible into equ ity, of a 
                                                                                                                                                                                
(iii)  Investment   made  by  spouse,  dependent  children,  dependent  parents  and dependent parents -in-laws 
of the employee out of the moneys received from the employee.” 
96 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 11.7.2026.

[Page 35]
commercial venture (including unlisted companies) of the employee, he  shall only have 
to choose from option (i) or (ii) of sub -regulation (1). 
(3) If non-permitted investments are not liquidated at the time of joining, - 
(i) the employee shall not be allowed to exercise voting rights in respect of those 
equity during the period of service with the Board; and  
(ii) receipt of equity on account of  corporate action or su bscription to rights issue 
with respect to such equity shall not be prohibited during  the period of service 
with the Board. 
(4) If an employee opts for trading plan, he must adhere to that trading plan and 
deviation could only be with the prior approval.  
(5) The prior approval required under this regulation shall be obtained from the OEC.  
(6) Vested option with respect to equity may be exercised by  an employee before 
joining the Board and shall not be allowed to be exercised during th e period of service 
with the Board. 
(7) For the employees who were already in the service of the B oard at the time of 
coming into force of this amendment, options with respect to non -permitted 
investments, as d etailed out above, shall be exercised within t he timeline as may be 
specified. 
(8) Family members of the employee are allowed to hold the n on-permitted investment 
held by them at the time of the employee joining the services of the Board; and are also 
allowed to dispose them during the period of servi ce of the employee with the Board .] 
 
 
Speculation in stocks, shares, investments, etc. 
65. (1) An employee shall not indulge in badla trading or trade, speculate in stock, 
shares, securities or commodities of any description. 
(2) No employee, shall, when in knowledge of unpublished price sensitive information, 
encourage any person to deal in the securities to which it relates. 
(3) Each employee is deemed to be an "insider" within the meaning of 97[clause (g) 
of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Secur ities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and the provisions of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015] are applicable to each employee of the Board. In case of 
allegations of insider trading, the onus would be on the employee to prove that he is 
not guilty of insider trading. 
 
98[Disclosure of interests  
                                                           
97 Substituted for the words, numbers and symbols “sub-section (e) of Section (2) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 and the provisions of the 
Securities and Exch ange Board of India (Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992"  by the SEBI 
(Employees' Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.6.2018.  
98 Substituted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 
11.7.2026. Prior to its substitution, regulation 66 read as under: 
“ Movable, immovable and valuable property 
66.  (1) Every employee shall make a declaration of his assets and liabilities as specified from 
time to time under the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013 (1 of 2014). 
Provided that till the time the manner of such declaration is specified under Lokpal and 
Lokayuktas Act, 2013  (1 of 2014), the employees shall declare their assets and liabilities in the 
manner as specified from time to time with the approval of the Competent Authority.

[Page 36]
66. (1) An employee shall make following disclosures (in the format as determined by 
the competent authority), namely - 
(i) details of his family members; 
(ii) details of his relatives; 
(iii) details of professional interests during the last three years; 
(iv) details of immovable properties held by him and by his family members 
acquired out of the money received  from the employee or in which the employee 
has an interest; 
(v) details of financial investments and liabilities pertaining to him and to his 
family members acquired out of the money received from the employee or in 
which the employee has an interest; 
(vi) details of non -permitted investments held by family members of employees 
other than such investments acquired out of money received from the employee 
or in which the employee has an interest; and 
(vii) details of contract of renting out of immovable properties by him. 
(2) The disclosures listed at sub-regulation (1) shall be made by the employee to OEC at 
the time of his joining the services of the Board as well as at the time of exit from the 
services. 
(3) For the employees who were in the services of th e Board at the time of coming into 
force of this amendment, disclosure may be done within the timeline as may be 
specified. 
(4) Every change in details of family members or relatives, contract of renting out or 
transactions in immovable property (purchase,  sale, gift, inheritance) shall be disclosed 
by the employee to the OEC within one month from the end of the month in which such 
change takes place. 
(5) An employee shall disclose every transaction in financial asset made by him and by 
his family members a cquired out of the money received from the employee or in which 
the employee has an interest, during his period of service with the Board, to the OEC, if 
the value of such transaction is more than two times of his monthly basic pay, within one 
month from the end of the month in which such transaction takes place. 
(6) An employee shall disclose details as required under sub -regulation (1) with respect 
to any person becoming his family member, during his period of service, within one 
month from the end of the month in which such change takes place. 
(7) Employees shall file disclosures listed at sub -regulation (1) as on the last day of the 
                                                                                                                                                                                
 (2)  No  employee  shall,  except  with  the  previous  knowledge  of  the  competent  
authority,  acquire  or  dispose  off  any  immovable  property  by  lease,  mortgage, purchase, 
sale, gift or otherwise either in his own name or in the name of any member of his family. 
(3) Provided that the previous sanction of the competent authority shall be obtained by the 
employee if any such transaction is with a person having official dealings with the employee.  
Where an employee enters into a transactio n in respect of movable property either in his own 
name or in the name of the member of his family, he shall within 30 days from the date of such 
transaction, report the same to the competent authority, if the value of such property exceeds such 
amount as may be specified by the Chairman from time to time. 
(4) Provided that the previous sanction of the competent authority shall be obtained by the 
employee if any such transaction is with a person having official dealings with the employee.  
The competent auth ority may, at any time, by general or special order require an employee  to  
furnish  within  a  period  specified  in  the  order  a  full  and  complete statement of such 
movable or immovable property held or acquired by him or on his behalf  or  by  any   member  of  
his  family  as  may  be  specified  in  the  order.  Such statement shall, if so required by the 
competent authority, include the details of the means by which, or the source from which, such 
property was acquired.”

[Page 37]
previous financial year within the timeline as may be specified. 
(8) Details of immovable properties disclosed by the emplo yees in Grade F and 
Executive Directors, shall be made public by the OEC in such manner as may be 
prescribed from time to time.] 
 
99[Recusal 
 
66A. (1) An employee shall recuse himself from a matter specifically relating to a person 
which falls within the scope of conflicted relationship. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, the term ‘person’ includes an entity or 
an individual. 
 
(2) Recusal shall mean all of the following - 
(i) not present when the matter relating to such person comes up for disc ussion or 
decision; 
(ii) not having access to information relating to that matter; 
(iii) not participating in discussion relating to that matter; and 
(iv) any other manner as may be determined by the competent authority. 
(3) Matter relating to a person would fall within the scope of conflicted relationship of 
an employee, if - 
(i) the matter is of a person in which any of the f amily member or relative of the 
employee is employed as key managerial person or in Senior Management; 
(ii) the matter involves any of the professional interes t or relational interest of the 
employee which may give rise to bias or perceived bias in handling such matter; 
(iii) the matter involves a person who is or has been a close friend or close associate 
during the last three years a nd is likely to give ri se to bias or perceived bias in 
handling such matter; 
(iv) the employee has material interest in the matter  in terms of investment made by 
him in that person; or 
(v) the employee has investment in products off ered by a SEBI regulated  entity 
which is professionally managing pooled investmen t vehicle and the investment is 
beyond the threshold of 25% prescribed in regu lation 64(2), till the time the 
investment with that entity falls below the threshold of 25%. 
 
(4) An employee shall have material interest in a person if- 
(i) he and his family member together have made n on-permitted investment of more 
than Rs. 20 Lakh (in terms of acquisition cost) in that person; or 
(ii) his and his family members’ non -permitted investment together in tha t person is 
more than 5% of total acquisition cost of all the fi nancial investments held by him as 
on the last day of the immediate previous financial y ear, or on the date of joining, 
whichever is later. 
(5) For the removal of doubt it is clarified that a matter involving a class of entities or 
making generic regulations shall not come within the scope of conflicted relationship. 
(6) Whenever there is a doubt whether a matter involves conflicted relationship, the issue 
may be referred to OEC or any other authority as may be specified. 
(7) An employee shall disclose conflicted relati onship at the earliest possible 
opportunity. 
(8) A digital system and recusal framework shall be put i n place to record disclosure of 
conflicted relationship as well as to record and process recusals] 
 
                                                           
99 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 11.7.2026.

[Page 38]
Lending and Borrowings 
67. No employee shall in his individual capacity - 
(i) borrow or pe rmit any member of his  dependent family members to borrow or 
otherwise place himself or a member of his dependent family members under a 
pecuniary obligation to a broker or a money lender or a subordinate employee of 
the Board or any  person, association of persons,  firm, company or institution, 
whether incorporated or not, having dealings with the Board; 
(ii) incur debts at a race meeting; 
(iii) lend money in private capacity to a constituent of the Board or have personal 
dealings with such constituent in the purchase or sale of bills of exchange, Government 
paper or any other securities; and 
(iv) guarantee in his private capacity the pecuniary obligations of another person or 
agree to indemnify in such  capacity another person from loss except with the 
previous permission of the competent authority; 
Provided further that an employee may obtain a loan from a cooperative credit society 
of which he is a member or stand as surety in respect of a loan taken by another 
member from a cooperative credit society of which he is a member. 
 
 
Demonstrations 
68. No employee shall engage himself or participate in any demonstration which is 
prejudicial to the interests of the Board sovereignty and integrity of India, the security 
of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality, 
or which involves contempt of court, defamation or incitement of an offence. 
Joining of Association prejudicial to the interests of the country 
69. No employee shall join, or continue to be a member of an association, the objects 
or act ivities of which  are prejudicial to t he interests of the  Board sovereignty and 
integrity of India or public order or morality. 
 
 
Raising of subscriptions 
70. No employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the competent authority, 
ask for or accept a contribution to or otherwise associate himself with the raising of 
any funds or other  collections in cash or in  kind in pu rsuance of any objective 
whatsoever. 
 
 
Not to misuse official position 
71. (1) No employee, shall ; 
(a) Ever encourage outside agencies to call on h im at his  residence/temporary 
headquarters while on tour for discussion on official matters. 
(b) In dealing with the market intermediaries and public for seeking any clarification 
on matters relating to them, resort to oral clarifications and personal discussions 
as far as possible and written communication shall be the normal practice. 
(c) Use office facilities like letter heads for writing to the companies asking them to 
consider allotment of shares/securities to their family members, friends or 
associates on expiry of the relevant date/s or otherwise. 
(d) Ever involve in any type of activities/favours and physical facilities so as to

[Page 39]
place himself in an embarrassing position in the discharge of his  duties with 
integrity and fairness. 
(2) An employee is strictly prohibited from using his official position for any personal 
favour for himself or his family members or his relatives or friends. 
 
 
100[Prohibition on participating in auction conducted by the Board in pursuance of 
recovery proceedings.  
71A. No employee shall participate, either directly or indirectly, in an auction conducted 
by the Board for sale of  movable or immovable properties in pursuance of recovery 
proceedings initiated under section 28A of the Act or section 23JB of the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or section 19-IB of the Depositories Act, 1996.] 
 
Consumption of Intoxicating Drinks and Drugs 
72. (1) An employee shall strictly abide by any law relating to intoxicating drinks or 
drugs in force in any area in which he may happen to be posted for the time being. 
It is also the duty of the employee to see that— 
(2) (a) He takes due care that the performance of his duty is not affected in any way 
by the influence of any intoxicating drink or drug; 
(b) He does not appear in public place in a state of intoxication; and 
Explanation.—For the purpose of this regulation, the term "Public place" would include 
clubs (even exclusively meant for members where it is permissible for the members to 
invite non-members as guests), bars and restaurants, public conveyances and all other 
places to which the public have or are permitted to have access, whether on payment 
or otherwise. 
(c) He does not habitually use any intoxicating drink or drug in excess. 
 
 
 
Employees in debt 
73. (1) An employee shall so manage his private affairs as to avoid habitual indebtedness 
or ins olvency. An employee against whom any legal proceeding is instituted for the 
recovery of any debt due from him or for adjudging him as an insolvent, shall 
forthwith report the full facts of the legal proceedings to the competent authority. 
(2) An employee who is in debt shall furnish to the competent authority a signed 
statement of his  position half-yearly on the  30th June and 31st December and shall 
indicate in the statement the steps he is taking to rectify his position. An employee 
who makes a false statement under this Regulation or who fails to submit the specified 
statement or appears unable to liquidate his debts within a reasonable time or applies 
for the protection of an insolvency court shall be liable to disciplinary action. 
Explanation 1.—For the purpose of this Regulation, an employee shall be deemed to 
be in debt if his total liabilities exclusive of those which are fully secured exceed his 
substantive pay for twelve months. 
Explanation 2.—An employee shall be deemed to be unable to liquidate his debts 
within a reasonable time if it ap pears having regard to his personal resources and 
unavoidable current expenses that he will not cease to be in debt within a period of 
two years. 
                                                           
100 Inserted vide the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 27.7.2017.

[Page 40]
Employees arrested for debt or on criminal charge 
74. (1) An employee who is arrested for debt or on a criminal charge or is detained in 
pursuance of any process of law  may, if so  directed by the competent authority, be 
considered as being or having been under suspension from the date of his arrest or, as 
the case may be, of his detention, upto such date or during such other period as the 
competent authority may direct. In respect of the period in regard to which he is so 
treated, he shall be allowed the payment admissible to an employee under suspension 
under sub-regulation (6) of Regulation 86. 
(2) Any payment made to an employee under sub-regulation (1) shall be su bject to 
adjustment of his pay and allowances which shall be made according to the 
circumstances of the case and in the light of the decision as to whether such period is 
to be accounted for as a period of duty or leave; 
Provided that full pay and allowances will be admissible only if the employee — 
(a) is treated as on duty during such period; and 
(b) is acquitted of all blame or satisfies the competent authority, in the case of his 
release from detention being set aside by a competent court, that he had not 
been guilty of improper conduct in his detention. 
(3) An employee shall be liable to dismissal or to any of the other penalties referred to 
in Regulation 79 if he is committed to prison for debt or is convicted for an offence 
which, in the opinion of the competent authority, either involves gross moral turpitude 
or has a bearing on any of the affairs of the Board or on the discharge by the employee of 
his / her duties with the Board; the opinion in this respect of the competent authority 
shall be conclusive and binding on the employee. Such dismissal or other penalty may 
be imposed as from the date of his committal to prison or conviction and nothing in 
Regulation 80 and 82 shall apply to such imposition. 
(4) Where an employee has been dismissed in pursuance of sub-regulation (3) and the 
relative conviction is set aside by a higher court and the employee is acquitted, he 
shall be reinstated in service. 
Explanation.—In this Regulation, committal or con viction shall mean committal or 
conviction by the lowest court or any appellate court. 
(5) Where the absence of an employee from duty without leave or his overstayal is 
due to his having been arrested for debt or on a criminal charge or to his having been 
detained in pursuance of any process of law, the provisions of Regulation 60 shall 
also apply and for the purposes of that Regulation as so applied, the employee shall be 
treated as having absented himself without leave or, as the case may be, overstayed, 
otherwise than under circumstances beyond his control. 
 
 
Vindication of Acts and character of employee 
75. (1) No employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the competent authority 
have recourse to any Court or to the press for the vindication of any official act which 
has been the subject matter of adverse criticism or an attack of a defamatory character. 
(2) Nothing in this regulation shall be deemed to prohibit an employee from vindicating 
his private character or any act done by him in private capacity and where any action 
for vindicating his private character or any act done by him in private capacity is 
taken, the employee shall submit a report to the competent authority regarding such 
action.

[Page 41]
Not to address appeals, representations, petitions to outside authority or person 
76. No employee shall address any appeal, representation or petition to any outside 
authority or person in respect of a matter pertaining to the employees service in the 
Board. Addressing such appeals, representations or petitions shall be deemed a breach 
of discipline. 
 
 
Criticism of Board or Government 
77. No employee shall, in any radio broadcast, telecast through any electronic media 
or any document published in his own name or anonymously, pseudonymously or in 
the name of any other person or in any communication to the press or in any public 
utterance, make any statement of fact or opi nion which has the effect of an adverse 
criticism of any current or recent policy or action of the Board or Government. 
Provided that nothing in this regulation shall apply to any statements made or views 
expressed by an employee in his official capacity or in the due performance of the 
duties assigned to him. 
 
 
Not to misuse residential accommodation or other facilities 
78. (1) An employee shall not misuse the residential accommodation or any other 
facility or concession granted by the Board. 
(2) Save as otherwise expressly permitted by the Board, no employee shall, sub-let, 
lease or otherwise allow occupation by any other person of Board's residential 
accommodation which has been allotted to him. 
(3) An employee shall, after the determination / cancellation of his allotment of 
residential accommodation vacate the same within the time limit specified by the 
allotting authority. 
 
 
101[Prohibition of Sexual Harassment of Women Employee at Work Place 
78A. (1) No employee shall indulge in, any act of sexual harassment of any women 
employee at the work place. 
(2) For the purpose of sub -regulation (1), sexual harassment shall mean unwelcome 
sexually determined behaviour, whether directly or by implication, including:— 
(a) physical contact and advances; 
(b) a demand or request for sexual favours; 
(c) sexually coloured remarks: 
(d) showing pornography; or 
(e) any other unwelcome 'physical, 'verbal, or non-verbal conduct of a sexual nature, 
(3) Any complaint of violation of sub-regulation (1) shall be dealt by the Complaints 
Committee set up by the Board, which shall 
(i) be chaired by a workman; 
(ii) consist of at least one outsider who is familiar with the issue of sexual harassment; 
                                                           
101 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2007, w.e.f. 11-4-2007.

[Page 42]
and 
(iii) be composed in such a manner that at least one half of its members are women. 
(4) The Complaints Committee may evolve its own procedure for dealing with 
complaints received by it. 
(5) Without prejudice to the  provisions contained in sub -regulation (4), where the 
Complaints Committee is of the opinion that the complaint is motivated or frivolous, 
it may close the complaint under intimation to the complainant and the Board. 
(6) When the Complaints Committee is of the opinion that there are grounds for 
inquiring into the truth of any such complaint, it shall initiate an inquiry into the truth 
thereof, after recording the reasons therefor. 
(7) Any inquiry initiated by the Complaints Committee under sub-regulation (6) pursuant 
to any such complaint shall be deemed to be an inquiry within the meaning of 
regulation 80 and accordingly. 
(i) the Complaints Committee shall be deemed to be an inquiry officer appointed 
with respect to such complaint and shall have all the powers, functions and 
duties of an inquiry officer as provided in that regulation; 
(ii) the proceedings shall be held, as far as may be, in accordance with that regulation, 
subject to the following modifications, namely:— 
(a) that the charges shall be framed and communicated to the employee by 
the Complaints Committee (instead of the competent authority) under 
sub-regulation (3) thereof; and 
(c) the written statement of defence of the employee shall be sent to the 
Complaints Committee (instead of to the competent authority). 
(iii) the findings of the Complaints Committee shall be in the form of a report, 
which complies with the requirements of sub-regulation (21) of regulation 80 
and such report shall be deemed to be an inquiry report for the purposes of these 
regulations: 
(8) Nothing contained in this regulation shall be construed to prejudice the powers of 
the Complaints Committee to provide counseling or other support service.] 
 
 
Penalties 
79. Without prejudice to the other provisions of these Regulations, an employee who 
commits a breach of any regulation of the Board or who displays negligence, 
inefficiency or indolence, or who knowingly does anything detrimental to the interests 
of the Board or in conflict with its instructions, or who commits a breach of discipline 
or is guilty of any other act of misconduct, shall be liable to the following penalties: 
Minor penalties 
(1) (a) Censure; 
(b) Withholding of promotion; 
(c) Recovery from pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Board 
by the employee by negligence or breach of orders; 
(d) Reduction to a lower stage in the time scale of pay for a period not exceeding 
three years without cumulative effect ; 
(e) Withholding of increments of pay;

[Page 43]
Major penalties 
(2)(a) Save as provided for in clause (d) of Sub-regulation (1), reduction to a lower 
stage in the time scale of pay for a specified period with further directions as to 
whether or not the employee shall earn increments of pay during the period of such 
reduction and whether on the expiry of such period, the reduction shall or shall not 
have the effect of postponing the future increments of his pay. 
(b) Reduction to a lower time scale of pay, grade, post or service which shall ordinarily 
be a bar to the promotion of the employee to the time scale of pay, grade, post or 
service from which he was reduced, with or without further directions regarding 
conditions of restoration to the grade or post or service from which theemployee 
was reduced and (c) his seniority and pay on such restoration to that scale of pay, 
grade, post or service. 
(c) Compulsory retirement ; 
(d) Removal from service which shall not be a disqualification for future employment; 
(e) Dismissal from service which shall ordinarily be a disqualification for future 
employment: 
102[Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall limit the power of the 
Competent Authority to direct recovery from an employee of the amount of pecuniary 
loss caused to the Board by all means available to the Board under the law including, 
to the exten t permissible, from such amounts due from the Board and payable to the 
employee, in addition to recovery of such loss from the pay, howsoever that the total 
amount so recovered does not exceed the amount of pecuniary loss quantified.] 
103[Explanation 1 ] : The following shall not amount to a penalty within the meaning 
of this regulation namely :— 
(i) Withholding of one or more increments of an employee on account of his failure to 
pass a specified departmental test or examination in accordance with the terms 
of appointment to the post which he holds. 
(ii) Stoppage of pay of an employee at the efficiency bar in a time scale, on the 
ground of his unfitness to cross the bar ; 
(iii) Non-promotion whether in an officiating capacity or otherwise, of an employee, 
to a higher grade or post for which he may be eligible for consideration but for 
which he is found unsuitable after consideration of his case ; 
(iv) Reversion to a lower grade or post, of an employee officiating in a higher grade 
or post, on the ground that he is considered, after trial, to be unsuitable for such 
higher grade or post, or on administrative grounds unconnected with his conduct 
; 
(v) Reversion to his previous grade or post, of an employee appointed on probation 
to another grade or post, during or at t he end of the period of probation, in 
accordance with the terms of his appointment or regulations or orders governing 
such probation ; 
(vi) Termination of the service :— 
(a) of an employee appointed on probation, during or at the end of the period 
                                                           
102 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 06-05-2024. 
103 Renumbered as Explanation 1 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 06-05-2024.

[Page 44]
of pr obation, in accordance with the terms of his appointment, or the 
regulations or orders governing such probation ; 
(b) of an employee appointed in a temporary capacity otherwise than under a 
contract or agreement, on the expiration of the period for which he was 
appointed, or earlier in accordance with the terms of his appointment; 
(c) of an employee appointed under a contract or agreement, in accordance 
with the terms of such contract or agreement ; and 
(d) of an employee on abolition of post. 
(vii) Termination of employment of an employee on medical grounds, if he is declared 
unfit to continue in the Board's service by the Board's Medical Officer; 
(viii) Retirement of an employee in accordance with the proviso to Regulation 13(1). 
 
104[Explanation 2: For the purpose of this regulation, proceedings if instituted while the 
employee was in service whether before retirement/ repatriation to the parent cadre/ 
completion of contract period or during re -employment shall, after the final retirement/ 
repatriation to th e parent cadre/ completion of contract period of the employee, be 
deemed to be a proceeding under this regulation and shall be continued and concluded by 
the authority before which it commenced in the same manner as if the employee had 
continued in service.] 
 
Procedure for imposing major penalties 
80. (1) No order imposing any of the major penalties specified in regulation 79 (2) 
shall be made except after an inquiry is held in accordance with this regulation. 
(2) Whenever, the Competent Authority is of the opinion that there are grounds for 
inquiring into the truth of any imputation of misconduct or misbehaviour against an 
employee, it may itself inquire into or appoint any other officer 105[or any person not 
below the rank of retired District Judge, retired High Court Judge, retired Joint Secretary 
to the  Government of India,  retired Secretary to any  State Government or retired 
Executive Director of any Financial Institution/Nationalised Bank/Reserve Bank of 
India] (hereinafter referred to as the inquiry officer) to inquiry into the truth thereof. 
Explanation : A breach of any of the provisions of these regulations shall be deemed 
to constitute a misconduct. 
The enquiry under this regulation, shall be done, in case the employee against whom 
proceeding is taken is an officer, by any officer who is in a grade higher than such 
employee and in the case of other employees any officer. 
Explanation : When the Competent Authority itself holds the inquiry any reference in 
sub- regulation (8) to sub-regulation (21) to the inquiry Officer shall be construed as a 
reference to Competent Authority 
(3) Where it is proposed to hold an inquiry, the Competent Authority shall frame 
definite and distinct charges on the basis of the allegation against the employee and 
the articles of charge, together with a statement of the allegations, on which they are 
based, shall be communicated in writing to the employee, who shall be required to 
submit within such time as may be specified by the Competent Authority (not exceeding 
15 days), or w ithin such extended time as may be granted  by the said Authority, a 
                                                           
104 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 06-05-2024. 
105 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, w.e.f. 24-5-2004.

[Page 45]
written statement of his defence. 
(4) On receipt of the written statement of the employee, or if no  such statement is 
received within the time specified, an inquiry may be held by the Competent Authority 
itself, or if it considers in necessary so to do appoint under sub-regulation (2) an 
Inquiry Officer for the purpose. 
Provided that it may not be necessary to hold an inquiry in respect of the articles of 
charge admitted by the employee in his written statement but shall be necessary to 
record its findings on each such charge. 
(5) The Competent Authority shall, where it is not the Inquiry Officer, forward to the 
Inquiry Officer; 
(i) a copy of the articles of charges and statements of imputations of misconduct or 
misbehaviour; 
(ii) a copy of the written statement of defence, if any submitted by the employee; (iii) 
a list of documents by which and list of witnesses by whom the articles of 
charge are proposed to be substantiated; 
(iv) a copy of statements of the witnesses, if any; 
(v) evidence providing the delivery of articles of charge under sub-regulation (3); (vi) 
a copy of the order appointing the 'Presenting Officer' it terms of sub-regulation 
(6). 
(6) Where the Competent Authority itself inquires or appoints an inquiring authority 
for holding an inquiry, it may, by an order, appoint an officer to be known as the 
"Presenting Officer" to present on its behalf the case in support of the articles of 
charge. 
(7) The employee may take the assistance of any other employee but may not engage 
a le gal practitioner, for the purpose, unless the presenting officer appointed by the 
Competent Authority, is a legal practitioner or Competent Authority having regard to 
the circumstances of the case, so permits. 
(8)(a) The Inquiry Officer shall by notice in writing specify the day on which  the 
employee shall appear in person before the Inquiry Officer. 
(b) On the date fixed by the Inquiry Officer, the employee shall appear before the 
Inquiry Officer at the time, place and date specified in the notice. 
(c) The Inquiry Officer shall ask the employee whether he pleads guilty or as any 
defence to make and if he pleads guilty to any of the Articles of charge, the Inquiry 
Officer shall record the plea, sign the record and obtain the signature of the employee 
concerned thereon. 
(d) The Inquiry Officer shall return a finding of guilty in respect of those articles of 
charge to which the employee concerned pleads guilty. 
(9) If the employee does not plead guilty, the Inquiry Officer shall adjourn the case to 
a later date not exceeding 30 days. 
(10) (a) The Inquiry Officer shall, where the employee does not admit all or any of 
the articles of charge, furnish to such employee a list of documents by which, and a 
list of witness by whom, the articles of charge are proposed to be proved. 
(b) The Inquiry Officer shall also record an order that the employee may for the 
purpose of preparing his defence. 
(i) inspect within five days of the order or within such further time not exceeding 
five days as the inquiring officer may allow, the documents listed;

[Page 46]
(ii) submit a list of documents and witness that he want for the inquiry; 
(iii) be supplied with copies of s tatements or witnes ses to be relied upon, if any, 
recorded earlier and the Inquiry Officer shall furnish such copies not later than 
three days before the commencement of the examination of the witnesses by the 
Inquiry Officer; 
(iv) give a notice within ten days of the order or within such further time not exceeding 
ten days as the inquiring officer may allow for the discovery or production of the 
documents referred to in item (ii). 
Note : The relevancy of the documents and the examination of the witnesses referred 
to in sub-clause (ii) shall be given by the employee concerned. 
(11) The inquiry officer shall, on receipt of the notice for the discovery or production 
of the documents, forward the same or copies thereof to the authority in whose custody 
or possession the documents are kept with a requisition for the production of the 
documents on such date as may be specified. 
(12) On the receipt of the requisition under sub regulation (11), the authority having 
the custody or possession of the requisitioned documents shall arrange to produce the 
same before the Inquiry Officer on the date, place and time specified in the requisition; 
Provided that the authority having the custody or possession of the requisitioned 
documents may claim privilege if the production of such documents will be against 
the public interest or the interest of the Board. In that event, it shall inform the Inquiry 
Officer accordingly. 
(13) On the date fixed for the inquiry, the oral or documentary evidence by which the 
articles of charge are proposed to be proved shall be produced by or on behalf of the 
Competent Authority. 
The witnesses produced by the Presenting Officer shall be examined by the Presenting 
Officer and may be cross-examined by or on behalf of the employee. 
The Presenting Officer shall be entitled to re-examine his witnesses on any points on 
which they have been cross – examined, but not on a new matter, without the leave of 
the inquiry officer. 
The inquiry officer may also put such questions to the witnesses. 
(14) Before the close of the case, in support of the charges, the Inquiry Officer may, 
in its  discretion, allow the Presenting Officer to produce  evidence not included in 
chargesheet or may itself call for new evidence or recall or re-examine any witness. In 
such case the employee shall be given opportunity to inspect the documentary evidence 
before it is taken on record, or to cross-examine a witness, who has been so 
summoned. The Inquiry Officer may also allow the employee to produce new evidence, 
if it is of opinion that the production of such evidence is necessary in the interests of 
justice. 
(15) When the case in support of the charges is closed, the employee may be required 
to state his defence, orally or in writing, as he may prefer. If the defence is made 
orally, it shall be recorded and the employee shall be required to sign the record. In 
either case a copy of the statement of defence shall be given to the Presenting officer, 
if any, appointed. 
(16) The evidence on behalf of the employee shall then be produced. The employee 
may examine himself in his own behalf, if he so prefers. The witnesses produced by 
the employee shall then be examined by the employee and may be cross-examined by 
the Presenting Officer. The employee shall be entitled to re-examine any of his witnesses 
on any points on which they have been cross-examined, but not on any new matter

[Page 47]
without the leave of the Inquiry Officer. 
(17) The inquiry officer may, after the officer employee closes his evidence, and shall, 
if the officer employee has not got himself examined, generally question him on the 
circumstances appearing against him in the evidence for the purpose of enabling the 
employee to explain any circumstances appearing in the evidence against him. 
(18) After the completion of t he p roduction of the  evidence, the employee and the 
Presenting Officer may file written briefs of their respective cases within 15 days of 
the date of completion of the production of evidence. 
(19) If the employee does not submit the written statement of defence referred to in 
sub-regulation (3) on or before the date specified for the purpose or does not appear in 
person, or through the assisting officer or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with 
any of the provisions of these regulations, the Inquiry Officer may hold the inquiry 
ex-parte. 
(20) Whenever any Inquiry Officer, after having heard and recorded the whole or any 
part of the evidence in an inquiry ceases to exercise jurisdiction therein, and is succeeded 
by another Inquiry Officer which has, and which exercises, such jurisdiction, the Inquiry 
Officer so succeeding may act on the evidence so recorded by its predecessor, or partly 
recorded by its predecessor and partly recorded by itself: 
Provided that if the succeeding Inquiry Officer is of the opinion that further examination 
of any of the witnesses whose evidence has already been recorded is 
necessary in the interest of justice, it may recall, examine, cross-examine and re- 
examine any such witnesses as herein before provided. 
(21) (i) On the conclusion of the inquiry the Inquiry Officer shall prepare a report 
which shall contain the following : 
(a) a gist of the articles of charge and the statement of the imputations of misconduct 
or misbehaviour; 
(b) a gist of the defence of the employee in respect of each article of charge; 
(c) an assessment of the evidence in respect of each article of charge; 
(d) the findings on each article of charge and the reasons therefor 
Explanation : If, in the opinion of the Inquiry Officer the proceedings of the inquiry 
establish any article of charge different from the original article of charge, it may 
record its findings on such article of charge. 
Provided that the findings on such article of charge shall be recorded unless the 
employee has either admitted the facts on which such article of charge is based or has 
had a reasonable opportunity of defending himself against such article of charge. 
(ii) The Inquiry Officer, where it is not itself the Competent Authority, shall forward 
to the Competent Authority the records of inquiry which shall include— 
(a) the report of the inquiry prepared by it under clause (i); 
(b) the written statement of defence, if any, submitted by the employee referred to 
in sub regulation (15); 
(c) the oral and documentary evidence produced in the course of the inquiry; 
(d) written briefs referred to in sub-regulation (18), if any, and 
(e) the orders, if any, made by the Competent Authority and the Inquiry Officer in 
regard to the inquiry.

[Page 48]
Action on the inquiry report 
81. (1) The Competent Authority, if it is not itself the Inquiry Officer, may, for reasons 
to be recorded by it in writing, remit the case to the inquiry for fresh or further inquiry 
and report and the Inquiry Officer shall thereupon proceed to hold the further inquiry 
according to the provisions of regulation 80 as far as may be. 
(2) The Competent Authority, shall, if it disagrees with the findings of the Inquiry 
Officer on any article of charge, record its reasons for such disagreement and record 
its own findings on such charge, if the evidence on record is sufficient for the purpose. 
(3) If the Competent Authority, having regard to the findings on all or any of the 
articles of charge, is of the opinion that any of the penalties specified in regulation 79 
should be imposed on the employee it s hall notwithstanding anything contained in 
regulation 82, make an order imposing such penalty. 
(4) If the Competent Authority having regard to its findings on all or any of the 
articles of charge, is of the opinion that no penalty is called for, it may pass an order 
exonerating the employee concerned.

[Page 49]
Procedure for imposing minor penalties 
82. (1) Where it is proposed to impose any of the minor penalties specified in clauses 
(a) to (e) of regulation 79(1), the employee concerned shall be informed in writing of 
the imputations of lapses against him and given an opportunity to submit his written 
statement of defence within a specified period not exceeding 15 days or such extended 
period as may be granted by the Competent Authority and the defence statement, if any, 
submitted by the employee shall be taken into consideration by the Competent 
Authority before passing orders. 
(2) Where however, the Competent Authority is satisfied that an inquiry is necessary, 
it shall follow the procedure for imposing a major penalty as laid down in regulation 
80. 
(3) The record of the proceedings in such cases shall include: 
(a) A copy of the statement of imputations of lapses furnished to the employee; 
(b) The defence statement, if any, of the employee; and 
(c) The orders of the Competent Authority together with the reasons therefor. 
 
 
Communication of orders 
83. Orders made by the Competent Authority under regulation 81 or regulation 82 
shall be communicated to the employee concerned, who shall also be supplied with a 
copy of the report of inquiry, if any. 
 
 
Common Proceedings 
84. Where two or more employees are concerned in a case, the Competent Authority 
may make an order directing that the disciplinary proceedings against all of them may 
be taken in a common proceedings. 
 
 
Special procedure in certain cases 
85. Notwithstanding anything contained in Regulation 80 or Regulation 81 or Regulation 
82, the Competent Authority may impose any of the penalties specified in Regulation 
79 if the facts on the basis of which action is to be taken have been established in a 
Court of Law or Court Martial or where the employee has absconded or where it is 
for any other reason impracticable to communicate with him or where there are other 
difficulties in observing the requirements contained in Regulation 80, 
81 and 82 and the requirements can be waived without injustice to the employee. In 
every case where all or any of the requirements of Regulation 80, 81 and 82 are 
waived, the reasons for so doing shall be recorded in writing. 
 
 
Suspension 
86. (1) An employee may be placed under suspension by the competent authority :— 
(a) Where a disciplinary proceeding against him is contemplated or is pending ; or 
(b) Where a case against him in respect of any criminal offence is under investigation, 
inquiry or trial. 
(2) An employee shall be deemed to have been placed under suspension by an order 
of the competent authority—

[Page 50]
(a) with effect from the date of his detention, if he is detained in custody, whether 
on a criminal charge or otherwise, for a period exceeding 48 hours ; 
(b) with effect from the date of his conviction, if, in the event of a conviction for an 
offence, he is sentenced to a term of imprisonment and is forthwith not dismissed 
or removed or compulsorily retired consequent to such conviction. 
Explanation : The period of 48 hours referred to in clause (b) of this sub-regulation 
shall be computed from the commencement of the imprisonment after the conviction 
and for that purpose, intermittent periods of imprisonment, if any, shall be taken into 
account. 
(3) Where a pe nalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement from service 
imposed upon an employee under suspension is set  aside in appeal under these 
regulations and the case is r emitted for further enquiry or action or with any other 
directions, the order of his suspension shall be deemed to have been continued in 
force on and from the date of original order of dismissal, removal or compulsory 
retirement and shall remain in force until further orders. 
(4) Where a pena lty of dismissal or re moval or compulsory retirement from service 
imposed upon an employee is a set aside or declared or rendered void in consequence 
of or by a decision of a Court of Law and the Competent Authority, on a consideration 
of a circumstances of the case, decides to hold a further enquiry against him on the 
allegations on which a pe nalty of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement was 
originally imposed, the employee shall be deemed to have been placed under 
suspension by the Competent Authority from the date of the original order of 
dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement and shall continue to remain under 
suspension until further orders. 
Provided that no such further enquiry shall be ordered unless it is intended to meet a 
situation where the Court has passed an order purely on technical grounds without 
going into the merits of the case. 
(5) An order of suspension made or deemed to have been made under this regulation 
may at any time be modified or revoked by the Competent Authority which made or 
is deemed to have made the order. 
Subsistence allowance 
(6) During such suspension, he shall  receive subsistence allowance equal to (i) his 
substantive pay plus fifty percent of allowances thereon, for the  first six months of 
suspension; and (ii) his substantive pay plus seventy-five per cent of allowances thereon 
for the period of suspension beyond six months. 
Provided that the enhanced rate of subsistence allowance specified under sub-clause 
(ii) shall be admissible only if the enquiry is not delayed for reasons attributable to the 
concerned employee or any of his representatives. 
Provided further that if no penalty under Regulation 79 is imposed, the employee shall 
be refunded the difference between the subsistence allowance and the emoluments 
which he would have received but for such suspension, for the period he was under 
suspension, and that, if a penalty is imposed on him under Regulation 79, no order 
shall be passed which shall have the effect of compelling him to refund such subsistence 
allowance. The period during which an employee is under suspension shall, if he is 
not dismissed or removed or compulsorily retired from service, be treated as period 
spent on duty or leave as the Competent Authority who passes the final order may 
direct.

[Page 51]
Vigilance cases 
87. Notwithstanding anything contained in Regulations 79 to 86 or any other Regulation, 
the following additional provisions shall apply where it is alleged that an employee 
has been guilty of corrupt practices, namely: 
(1) Where it is alleged that an employee is possessed of disproportionate assets or 
that he has committed an act of criminal misconduct or where the investigation 
and proof of the allegation would require the evidence of persons, who are not 
employees of the Board or where, in the opinion of the competent authority, the 
investigation into the allegations may with the approval of the C hairman, be 
entrusted to the Central Bureau of Investi gation or the Central Vigilance 
Commission or any other such agency as may be approved by the Chairman. 
(2) If after considering the report of the investigation, the competent authority is 
satisfied that there is a prima facie case for instituting disciplinary proceedings 
against the employee, it may send the investigation report to the Central Vigilance 
Commission or such other authority as may be decided by the Chairman from time 
to time in this behalf, for its advice whether disciplinary proceedings should be 
taken against the employee concerned; 
(3) If after  considering the advice of the Central Vigilance Commission or other 
authority, as the case may be, the competent authority is of t he opinion that 
disciplinary proceedings should be instituted against the employee concerned, 
then notwithstanding the provisions of Regulation 80(2), the enquiry under this 
Regulation may be entrusted to a Commissioner for Departmental Enquiries or 
other person who may be nominated by the Central Vigilance Commission for 
this purpose. 
(4) The Inquiry Officer shall submit his report to the competent authority and the 
report shall be forwarded by the Chairman to the Central Vigilance Commission 
for its advice as to wh ether the charge or char ges as t he case may be, can be 
considered to have been established and the penalty or penalties to be imposed 
under Regulation 79 hereof. The penalty or pe nalties to be  imposed shall be 
decided by the competent authority after considering the advice of t he Central 
Vigilance Commission. 
Explanation : An employee shall be deemed to be guilty of corrupt practices if he has 
committed an act of criminal misconduct as defined in Section 13 of the Prevention of 
Corruption Act, 1988 or he has acted for an inproper purpose or in a corrupt manner 
or had exercised or refrained from exercising his powers with an improper or corrupt 
motive. 
 
106[Action against employees who have left the services of the Board. 
87A. Where an employee who has resigned or ret ired from the services of the Board or 
has completed the tenure of deputation/contract with the Board is alleged to have 
indulged in corrupt practices during the period of service, then the said allegation shall 
be dealt with as per the procedure approved by the Competent Authority from time to 
time. 
Explanation :For the purpose of this regulation, an allegation shall be deemed to indicate 
corrupt practice if the employee is alleged to have committed an act of criminal 
misconduct as provided in section 13 o f the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (49 of 
1988) or is alleged to have acted for an improper purpose or in a corrupt manner or is 
                                                           
106 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 06-05-2024.

[Page 52]
alleged to have exercised or refrained from exercising the powers with an improper or 
corrupt motive.] 
 
 
 
Appeal 
88. (1) An employee may appeal against an order imposing upon him any of the 
penalties specified in Regulation 79 or order of suspension under Regulation 86. The 
appeal shall lie to the Appellate Authority. 
Note : For the purpose of this regulation "Appellate Authority" means the Board, in 
case the Chairman is the competent authority; Chairman or whole- time member of 
the Board, in ca se the Executive Director is t he competent authority and Executive 
Director concerned in all other cases. 
(2) Every appeal shall comply with the following requirements:

[Page 53]
(a) it shall be written in Hindi or English or if not written in Hindi be accompanied 
by a translated copy in Hindi and shall be signed. 
(b) it shall  be couched in polite and respectful language and shall be free from 
unnecessary padding or superfluous verbiage. 
(c) it shall contain all material statements and arguments relied on and shall be 
complete in itself. 
(d) it shall specify the relief desired. 
(3) An appeal shall be preferred to the appellate authority within 45 days from the 
date of receipt of the order appealed against. The Appellate Authority shall consider 
whether the findings are justified or whether the penalty is excessive or inadequate 
and pass appropriate orders. The Appellate Authority may pass an order confirming, 
enhancing, reducing or setting aside the penalty or remitting the case to the authority 
which imposed the penalty or to any other authority with such direction as it may 
deem fit in the circumstances of the case 
Provided that— 
(i) if the enhanced penalty which the Appellate Authority proposed to impose is a 
major penalty specified in Regulation 79 (2) and an inquiry as p rovided in 
regulation 80 has not already been held in the case, the Appellate Authority 
shall direct that such an inquiry be h eld in accordance with the provisions of 
regulation 80 and thereafter consider the record of the inquiry and pass such 
orders as it may deem proper. 
(ii) if the Appellate Authority decides to enhance the punishment but an inquiry has 
already been held as provided in regulation 80, the Appellate Authority shall 
give a show cause notice to the employee as to why the enhanced penalty should 
not be imposed upon him and shall pass final order after taking into account 
the representation, if any, submitted by the employee. 
 
 
CHAPTER VII 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
 
Medical aid facilities  
89. (1) Medical aid and facilities shall be provided by the Board for its employees and 
such of their dependents in accordance with such guidelines as may be approved by 
the Board from time to time. The said guidelines, may, 'inter alia', provide for illness, 
injuries arising out of accidents, hospitalisation and domicile treatment. 
(2) Without prejudice to sub-regulation (1) the Board may take a comprehensive health 
insurance policy covering all its  employees and their dependants, on such terms and 
conditions, as it may determine. 
 
Travelling and halting allowances 
90. Travelling and halting allowances shall be paid to the employees according to 
such rates and on such terms and conditions as may be approved by the Board from 
time to time.

[Page 54]
Deputation of employees to join military service 
91. The terms and conditions subject to which an employee may be 107[deputed to the] 
military service shall be determined by the Board. 
 
108[Deputation and External Assignment  
92. An employee of the Board may be sent on deputation or on external assignment to serve 
under any other employer: 
Provided that such deputation or external assignment shall be pursuant to the approval of the 
Board and shall be in accordance with such terms and conditions as may be specified by the 
Board from time to time:  
Provided further that an employee shall not be sent on deputation or on external assignment 
against his will.] 
 
Gratuity 
93. (1) Every employee, shall be eligible for gratuity on :- (a) 
retirement ; 
(b) death ; 
(c) disablement rendering him unfit for further service as certified by Board's 
Medical Officer ; 
(d) resignation after completing five years of continuous service ; or 
(e) termination of service in any other way (except by way of punishment) after completion 
of five years of service. 
109[(2) The amount of gratuity payable shall be determined by the Board from time to time. 
                                                           
107 Substituted for the words “permitted to join” by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.6.2018. 
108 Substituted ibid. Prior to the substitution, regulation 92 read as follows:  
“Deputation of employees to other services 
92. (1) Without  prejudice  to the provisions  of Regulation  91, no employee  of the Board may be 
deputed to serve under any other employer without the approval of the Chairman who shall determine the 
duration of such deputation and the terms and conditions on which the deputation shall take effect ; 
Provided that no employee may be deputed to foreign service against his will. 
(2) Where the services of an employee of the Board are placed (2) at the disposal of a foreign employer, it 
shall be a condition of the deputation that the foreign employer shall, during the periods of such 
deputation, bear the entire cost of the services of the employee including the following, viz., 
(a)  Pay during joining time, 
(b)  Travelling allowances payable to the employee to enable him to join his appointment under a 
foreign employer and to return to his appointment in the Board on the termination of his 
deputation, 
(c)   Leave earned during the period of deputation, 
(d)   The employee's   contributions to the  employee's   account  in  the  Board's 
Provident Fund, and 
(e)  If the employee is entitled to pension under the Board, an amount, as may be determined by the 
Chairman, sufficient to cover the B oard's liability towards the pension for the period the 
employee is on deputation. 
In addition, the foreign employer may also be required to make a contribution towards any  gratuity  or  ot her  
sum  for  which  the  employee  may  become  eligible  on  his retirement, on such scale as may be fixed by the 
Chairman.”

[Page 55]
(2A) [In the case of]110 an employee who has not completed a minimum period of ten years of 
continuous service in the Board, the gratuity shall be paid as per the provisions of the 
Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (39 of 1972), as amended from time to time : 
Provided that where an employee has completed a minimum period of ten years of 
continuous service in the Board, the gratuity shall be paid as per the SEB1 (Payment of 
Gratuity to Employees) [Scheme]111, 2003: 
Provided further that the gratuity amount payable to an employee shall not be less than 
the amount payable under the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972.] 
112[(3) Without prejudice to the sub-regulations (1), (2) and (2A), the Board may create a 
gratuity trust.] 
113[(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, the gratuity payable to an 
employee may be withheld either in full or part, during the pe ndency of any proceedings 
initiated against an employee under regulations 79 to 82 and the withheld gratuity shall be paid 
to the employee on conclusion of the proceedings, subject to the decision of the proceedings or 
any recoveries to be effected from the employee.] 
 
114[Subscription to the SEBI Provident Fund or the SEBI New Pension Scheme 
94. (1) Unless otherwise specified in these regulations, every employee shall become a member 
of the SEBI Employee's Provident Fund and shall agree to be bound by the Rules of the Fund. 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -regulation (1), every whole time employee 
joining the services of the Board, on and from such date, as may be specified, shall only 
become a member of the SEBI New Pension Scheme and shall agre e to be bound by the Rules 
of the Scheme.  
(3) Every whole time employee of the Board who is a member of the SEBI Employee’s 
Provident Fund, prior to such date as may be specified, shall be given an option to remain a 
member of the SEBI Employee’s Providen t Fund or to become a member of the SEBI New 
                                                                                                                                                                                           
109 Substituted by  SEBI  (Employees'  Service)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2010,  w.r.e.f.  28-3-2003. Prior to 
its substitution, sub-regulations (2) read as under: 
"(2) The amount of gratuity payable shall be determined by the Board from time to time. 
Provided that where an employee has completed more than 30 years of service in the Board, 
he shall be eligible by way of gratuity for an additional amount at the rate of one half of a 
month's pay for each completed year of service beyond 30 years. 
Provided further that the gratuity amount payable to an employee shall not be less than the 
amount payable under the payment of Gratuity Act, 1972." 
110 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Services) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30 -12-2022. 
111 Substituted for “Rules” by SEBI (Employees' Services) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30 -12-
2022. 
112 Substituted  SEBI (Employees'  Service) (Amendment)  Regulations,  2010, w.r.e.f. 28-3-2003. 
Prior to its substitution, sub-regulations (3) read as under: "(3) Without prejudice to the sub- regulations (1) and 
(2), the Board may create a gratuity trust." 
113 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 06-05-2024. 
114 Substituted  by SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 23.12.2003. Prior to 
substitution, it read as : 
“Obligation to subscribe to the Provident Fund 
94. Unless otherwise directed by the Board or the Chairman, every employee shall become  
a member  of the SEBI Employee's  Provident  Fund  and  shall agree  to be bound by the 
Rules of the Fund."

[Page 56]
Pension Scheme, in such manner as may be specified.] 
 
 
Obligation to subscribe to the insurance scheme or fund instituted by the Board 
95. It shall be incumbent on every employee bound by these Regulations to subscribe to any 
insurance scheme or fund that may be instituted by the Board for the benefit of its 
employees and their families and to be bound by the rules of the said scheme or fund; 
Provided that nothing contained in this Regulation shall serve to curtail any superannuation 
benefits which may otherwise be admissible to an employee; 
Provided further that nothing contained in this Regulation shall require an employee to 
subscribe to the said scheme or fund if he is exempted from so doing under the rules of 
the said scheme or fund. 
 
 
Declarations to be signed by the employee 
96. Every employee to whom these Regulations apply, or who exercises his option to come 
under them shall subscribe to declarations in Forms A to C [as provided in the Appendix of 
these regulations]115. 
 
 
116[Repeal and Savings 
97. (1) On and from the date of commencement of these regulations—  
(a) the terms and conditions of the service of the existing whole -time employees of the Board 
shall stand modified in accordance with the provisions of these regulations;  
(b) the Securities and Exchange Board of India Service Regulations, 1988 stand repealed. 
(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India Service Regulations, 
1988, anything done or any action taken thereunder shall be deemed to have been done or taken 
under the corresponding provisions of these regulations.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
115 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
116 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022 .

[Page 57]
SCHEDULE117 
{Refer Clause (b) 118[and clause (d)] of Sub Regulation (4) of 
Regulation (6)} 
 
 
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
121[Executive 
Director [other 
(a) Promotion 
123[from 
Not less than 40 
years and not more 
Deputation from 
Govt., RBI, Banks, 
126[For 
Promotion - 
                                                           
117 Column with the heading ‘Length of service for Promotion’ omitted by the SEBI (Employees' Service) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
118 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13.08.2018.  
119 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f 17.5.2017  
120 Inserted by the SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f 07.02.2024 
121 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020 (w.e.f. August 05, 2020). Prior to the substitution, row 2 read as follows: —

[Page 58]
Executive 
Director 
(a) Promotion;  
(b) Deputation 
from Govt, RBI, 
Banks, Financial 
Institutions & 
Academic 
institutions;  
(c) On contract 
basis.  
2/3rd of the 
total posts from 
internal 
candidates and 
the remaining 
1/3rd to be filled 
up by 
deputation/ 
contract.  
In case of non -
availability in 
any category  i.e. 
internal and 
deputation/ 
contract, the 
post may be 
filled from other 
categories. 
Not less than 40 years 
and not more than 55 
years. 
 
MBA/MMS with 
specialisation in 
Finance / CA / CS /CFA 
/ CWA  / LLB / Post 
Graduation in 
Economics, Finance or 
any other discipline 
which in the opinion of 
the Board is useful, 
from a recognised 
University /Institution 
with a minimum of 20 
years of post 
qualification 
experience in dealing 
with 
problems relating to 
securities market or 
special knowledge / 
experience of law, 
investigation, Finance,  
Economics, 
Accountancy, 
Administration or 
any other discipline 
Promotion of  internal 
candidates 
from Grade F with 
minimum of 3 years 
service. 
Deputation 
from Govt. 
(All India / 
Central Civil 
Service Group 
A), RBI, Banks, 
Financial 
Institutions, 
with not less 
than 20 years 
of experience 
in dealing 
with 
problems 
relating to 
securities 
market or 
special 
knowledge / 
experience of 
law, 
investigation, 
Finance, 
Economics, 
Accountancy, 
Administratio
n or any  
other 
discipline 
considered 
useful to the 
Board. 
Chairman, two 
other 
members of 
the Board and 
two external 
experts to be 
nominated by 
the Chairman 
shall constitute 
the Selection 
Committee.  
In case of 
deputation 
from Govt. or 
other 
organizations, 
terms and 
conditions of 
deputation to 
be 
finalized in 
consultation 
with the 
lending 
organisation. 
 
 
123 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 18.06.2025. 
126 Substituted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 07-02-2024. Prior to 
substitution, it read as under:- 
Chairman, two other members of the Board and two external experts to be nominated by the Chairman 
shall constitute the Selection Committee.  
In case of deputation from Govt. or other organizations, terms and conditions of deputation to be 
finalized in consultation with the lending organization.]

[Page 59]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
than the 
designated post 
of Executive 
Director 
(Law122[/ 
Litigation) and 
Executive 
Director 
(Information 
technology])] 
 
relevant 
streams]; 
(b) Deputation 
from Govt., 
RBI, 
Banks, 
Financial 
Institutions 
& 
Academic 
institutions; 
(c) On contract 
basis 
 
124[Not more 
than 3 posts to 
be filled up by 
deputation/cont
ract and 
remaining posts 
from internal 
candidates 
than 55 years.  
MBA/MMS (with  
specialization in  
Finance) / CA / CS 
/CFA / CWA/ LLB/ 
Post Graduation in 
Economics, Finance 
or any other 
discipline which in 
the opinion of the 
Board is useful, from  
a recognized  
University 
/Institution with a 
minimum of 20 
years of post -
qualification 
experience in 
dealing with  
problems relati ng to 
securities market or 
special knowledge /  
Financial 
Institutions, with 
not less than 20 
years of experience  
in dealing with  
problems relating 
to  
securities market or  
special knowledge /  
experience of law,  
investigation, 
Finance, 
Economics, 
Accountancy, 
Administration or 
any other  
discipline 
considered useful 
to the Board.  
 
Chairman, two 
other members 
of the Board 
and two 
external 
experts to be 
nominated by 
the Chairman 
shall constitute 
the Selection 
Committee.  
 
For 
Deputation/ 
Contract - 
Chairman, two 
other members 
of the Board 
and two 
external 
experts to be 
nominated by 
                                                           
122 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 18.06.2025. 
124 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 18.06.2025. Prior to substitution, it read as “2/3rd of the total posts from internal candidates and 1/3rd posts, not 
more than 3, to be filled up by deputation/contract”.

[Page 60]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
through 
promotion.] 
 
[In case of 
non-
availability of 
candidates in 
any of the two 
categories i.e., 
either in 
internal or in 
deputation/ 
contract 
category, the 
available 
vacancy of one 
category may 
be filled up 
with a suitable 
candidate from 
the other 
category.]125 
experience of law,  
investigation, 
Finance, Economics,  
Accountancy,  
Administration or  
any other discipline. 
the Chairma n 
shall constitute 
the Search -
cum-Selection 
Committee.  
 
[In case of 
deputation 
from 
Government or 
other 
organizations, 
terms and 
conditions of 
deputation to 
be finalized in 
consultation 
with the 
lending 
Executive 
Director 
(Law127[/Litigat
ion]) 
128[ Not less 
than 40 years and 
not more than 55 
years.] 
 
LLB from a 
recognized 
University/ 
Institution with a  
minimum of 20 
years of post-
qualification 
experience in law. 
Deputation from 
Govt., RBI, Banks, 
Financial 
Institutions, having 
an LLB from  
a recognized  
University/ 
Institution with not 
less than 20 years 
of post -
qualification 
experience in law. 
                                                           
125 Substituted for “In case of non-availability in any category i.e.  internal and deputation/ contract,  the post may 
be filled from other categories” by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 
30.12.2022. 
127 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 18.06.2025. 
128 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Serv ice) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 18.06.2025.

[Page 61]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
129[Executive 
Director 
(Information 
Technology)] 
130[Not less than 40 
years and not more 
than 55 years. 
 
Bachelor’s Degree in 
Engineering in any 
branch or Bachelor’s 
Degree in any 
discipline with a 
post graduate 
qualification 
(minimum two years’ 
duration) in computer 
science/ computer 
application/ 
information 
technology from a 
recognized 
University/ Institute 
with a minimum of 
20 years of post -
131[Deputation 
from Govt., RBI, 
Banks, Financial 
Institutions, having 
Bachelor’s Degree 
in Engineering in 
any branch or 
Bachelor’s Degree 
in any discipline 
with a post 
graduate 
qualification 
(minimum two 
years’ du ration) in 
computer science/ 
computer 
application/ 
information 
technology from a 
recognized 
University/ 
organization.] ] 
 
 
                                                           
129 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 18.06.2025. 
130 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Servic e) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 18.06.2025. 
131 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 18.06.2025.

[Page 62]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
qualification 
experience in 
information 
technology.] 
Institute with a 
minimum of 20 
years of post -
qualification 
experience in 
information 
technology.] 
Grade D, E 
& F 
 
[(a) Promotion; 
(b) 
Deputation]132 
 
133[Upper age of 45, 48 
and 52 years for Grade 
D, E and F 
respectively. 
 
For officers in the 
General Stream – 
Master’s Degree/ Post 
Graduate Diploma* 
(minimum two years’ 
duration) in any 
discipline/ Bachelor’s 
Degree in Law/ 
Candidate 
Must possess not less 
than 11,14 & 17 
years of  
experience for Grade 
D, E and F 
respectively in All -
India / 
Central Civil 
Service as Group A 
officer or equivalent 
Minimum three 
members - two 
internal and one 
external. 
 
In case of 
deputation from 
Government or 
Other 
Organisations, 
                                                           
132 Substituted for “Deputation & Internal Promotion” by the SEBI (Employees' S ervice) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
133 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Employees’ Service) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 23.10.2023. Prior to substitution, it read as:  
“Upper age 45, 48 and 52 years for Grade D, E and F respectively. 
 Master’s Degree in any discipline, Bachelor’s Degree in Law, Bachelor’s  Degree in Engineering from a recognized 
university, CA, CFA, CS, CWA for officers in the General Stream. 
Bachelor’s Degree in Law from a recognized University/Institute for officers in the Legal Stream. 
Master’s Degree in Statistics / Economics / Commerce / Business Administration (Finance) / Econometrics for 
officers in the Research Stream. 
Bachelor’s Degree in Engineering in any discipl ine or Bachelor’s Degree in any discipline with a post graduate 
qualification (minimum 2 years duration) in computer application/ information technology from a recognized 
University/ Institute for officers in Information Technology Stream.”

[Page 63]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
Bachelor’s Degree in 
Engineering fr om a 
recognized University/ 
Institute or Chartered 
Accountant/ Chartered 
Financial Analyst/ 
Company Secretary/ 
Cost Accountant. 
*(Equivalent to a 
Master’s Degree in 
that discipline as 
recognized by the 
Association of Indian 
Universities). 
 
For officers in the 
Legal Stream – 
Bachelor’s Degree in 
Law from a recognized 
University/ Institute. 
 
For officers in  the 
Research Stream – 
Master’s Degree/ Post 
Graduate Diploma* 
(minimum two years’ 
duration) in 
Economics/ 
Commerce/ Business 
Administration/ 
Econometrics/ 
experience in RBI, 
Banks, 
Financial 
Institutions and 
academic 
Institutions. 
The experience 
shall be in dealing 
with the problems 
relating to securities 
market, 
special knowledge / 
experience of law, 
investigation, 
finance, Economics, 
Accountancy, 
Administration or 
any other 
discipline 
considered useful to 
the Board. 
terms and 
conditions of  
deputation to be 
finalised in 
consultation 
with the lending 
organisation.

[Page 64]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
Quantitative 
Economics/ Financial 
Economics / 
Mathematical 
Economics/ Business 
Economics/ 
Agricultural 
Economics/ Industrial 
Economics/ Business 
Analytics; or  
Master’s Degree/ Post 
Graduate Diploma* 
(minimum two years’ 
duration) in Finance/ 
Quantitative Finance/ 
Mathematical Finance/ 
Quantitative 
Techniques/ 
International Finance/ 
Business Finance/ 
International and 
Trade Finance/ Project 
and Infrastructure 
Finance/ Agri. 
Business Finance; or 
Master's Degree/ Post 
Graduate Diploma* 
(minimum two years’ 
duration) in Statistics/ 
Mathematical 
Statistics/ Statistics & 
Informatics/ Applied 
Statistics & 
Informatics/ Data

[Page 65]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
Science/ Artificial 
Intelligence/ Machine 
Learning/ Big Data 
Analytics; or 
Master's Degree in 
Mathematics and one 
year post graduate 
diploma in Statistics or 
related subjects from a 
recognized University/ 
Institute. 
*(Recognized 
equivalent to a 
Master’s Degree in 
that discipline by 
Association of Indian 
Universities). 
 
For officers in the 
Information 
Technology Stream – 
Bachelor’s Degree in 
Engineering in any 
branch or Bachelor’s 
Degree in any 
discipline with a post 
graduate qualification 
(minimum two years’  
duration) in computer 
science/ computer 
application/ 
information

[Page 66]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
technology from a 
recognized University 
/ Institute. 
 
For officers in the 
Engineering Stream –  
Bachelor’s Degree in 
Civil Engineering or 
Bachelor’s Degree in 
Electrical Engineering 
from a recognized 
University / Institute. 
 
For officers in the 
Official Language 
(Rajbhasha) Stream –  
Master’s Degree in 
Hindi/ Hindi 
Translation with  
English as a subject at 
the Bachelor’s Degree 
level; or Master’s 
Degree in Sanskrit/ 
English/ Economics/ 
Commerce with Hindi 
as a subject at 
Bachelor’s Degree 
level; or Master's 
Degree in both English 
and Hindi/ Hindi 
Translation from a 
recognized Univers ity/

[Page 67]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
Institute. ] 
 
 
  
Grade A / 
B/ C 
[(a) Promotion; 
(b) Di rect 
Recruitment]134 
135[Upper age of 30, 30 
and 35 years for Grade 
A, B and C 
respectively. 
 
For officers in the 
General Stream – 
Master’s Degree/ Post 
Graduate Diploma* 
(minimum two years’ 
duration) in any 
discipline/ Bachelor’s 
Degree in Law/ 
Bachelor’s Deg ree in 
Engineering from a 
recognized University/ 
-- Minimum three 
members - two 
internal and one 
external. 
                                                           
134 Substituted f or “Direct Recruitment and Internal Promotion” by the SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022. 
135 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Employees’ Service) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 23.10.2023. Prior to substitution, it read as:  
“Upto 30/ 30/ 35 Years 
 
Qualification shall be as specified above for Grade ‘D’, ‘E’ and ‘F’. 
 
For officers in the Legal Stream in Grade ‘A’ – In addition to the qualification specified for Legal Stream , two years 
post qualification experience as an Advocate (including as an associate in an Advocate’s or Solicitor’s Office or 
Law Firm) after being enrolled under the Advocates Act, 1961 (25 of 1961) shal l be a desirable qualification. 
 
Minimum 4 years post Qualification experience for Grade C in the applicable field as an advocate or as an officer in 
reputed Institution pref erably in the area of financial services, stock exchanges and other self -regulatory 
organizations or any such similar experience.”

[Page 68]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
Institute or Chartered 
Accountant/ Chartered 
Financial Analyst/ 
Company Secretary/ 
Cost Accountant. 
*(Equivalent to a 
Master’s Degree in 
that discipline as 
recognized by the 
Association of Indian 
Universities). 
 
For officers in the 
Legal Stream – 
Bachelor’s Degree in 
Law from a recognized 
University/ Institute. 
For officers in the 
Legal Stream in Grade 
‘A’ – In addition to the 
qualification specified 
for the Legal Stream, 
two years’ post 
qualification 
experience as an 
Advocate (including as 
an associate in an 
Advocate’s or 
Solicitor’s Office or 
Law Firm) after being 
enrolled under the 
Advocates Act, 1961

[Page 69]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
(25 of 1961) shall be a 
desirable qualification. 
 
For officers in the 
Research Stream – 
Master’s Degree/ Po st 
Graduate Diploma* 
(minimum two years’ 
duration) in 
Economics/ 
Commerce/ Business 
Administration/ 
Econometrics/ 
Quantitative 
Economics/ Financial 
Economics / 
Mathematical 
Economics/ Business 
Economics/ 
Agricultural 
Economics/ Industrial 
Economics/ Busine ss 
Analytics; or  
Master’s Degree/ Post 
Graduate Diploma* 
(minimum two years’ 
duration) in Finance/ 
Quantitative Finance/ 
Mathematical Finance/ 
Quantitative 
Techniques/ 
International Finance/ 
Business Finance/

[Page 70]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
International and 
Trade Finance/ Project 
and I nfrastructure 
Finance/ Agri. 
Business Finance; or 
Master's Degree/ Post 
Graduate Diploma* 
(minimum two years’ 
duration) in Statistics/ 
Mathematical 
Statistics/ Statistics & 
Informatics/ Applied 
Statistics & 
Informatics/ Data 
Science/ Artificial 
Intelligence/ Machine 
Learning/ Big Data 
Analytics; or 
Master's Degree in 
Mathematics and one 
year post graduate 
diploma in Statistics or 
related subjects from a 
recognized University 
/ Institute. 
*(Recognized 
equivalent to a 
Master’s Degree in 
that discipline by 
Association of Indian 
Universities).

[Page 71]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
For officers in the 
Information 
Technology Stream – 
Bachelor’s Degree in 
Engineering in any 
branch or Bachelor’s 
Degree in any 
discipline with a post 
graduate qualification 
(minimum two years’  
duration) in computer 
science/ computer 
application/ 
information 
technology from a 
recognized University 
/ Institute. 
 
 
For officers in the 
Engineering Stream –  
Bachelor’s Degree in 
Civil Engineering or 
Bachelor’s Degree in 
Electrical Engineering 
from a recognized 
University/ Institute. 
Desirable Experience 
for Civil Engineers – 
(i) Experience in 
maintenance of Office 
and Residential

[Page 72]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
properties/ colonies. 
(ii) Experience of 
administering 
construction projects 
in all its aspects and 
knowledge of PERT/ 
CPM techniques. (iii) 
Working knowledge of 
Computer in Structural 
Design in CAM/ CAD/ 
MS Project or 
Primavera evaluation 
and analyzing of 
tenders with special 
references. (iv) 
Working knowledge in 
structural 
rehabilitation works. 
(v) Experience in 
Construction and 
Project Management.  
Desirable Experience 
for Electrical 
Engineers – (i) 
Working knowledge of 
electronic systems like 
CCTV surveillance 
systems, Addressable 
Security Alarm and 
Fire Alarm systems, 
EPABX, UPS system, 
etc. (ii) Experience in 
maintenance of lifts, 
pumps, air -
conditioning plants,

[Page 73]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
etc. (iii) Experience of 
administering 
construction projects 
in all its aspects and 
knowledge of 
PERT/CPM 
techniques. 
 
For officers in the 
Official Language 
(Rajbhasha) Stream –  
Master’s Degree in 
Hindi/ Hindi 
Translation with 
English as a su bject at 
the Bachelor’s Degree 
level; or Master’s 
Degree in Sanskrit/ 
English/ Economics/ 
Commerce with Hindi 
as a subject at 
Bachelor’s Degree 
level; or Master's 
Degree in both English 
and Hindi/ Hindi 
Translation from a 
recognized University 
/ Institute. 
 
Minimum four years’ 
post Qualification 
experience for Grade

[Page 74]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
C in the applicable 
field as an advocate or 
as an officer in reputed 
Institution preferably 
in the area of financial 
services, stock 
exchanges and other 
self-regulatory 
organizations or any 
such similar 
experience.] 
Secretarial 
Staff 
 
Direct 
Recruitment 
136[only through 
written 
examination] 
Upto 30 years 
 
Second class  
Bachelor's Degree 
from a recognized  
University and a  
Secretarial Diplom a 
(having course 
duration of minimum 
six months) from a 
recognised Institute 
with good command 
over English language, 
minimum speed of 100 
w.p.m. in 
shorthand and 40 
-- 137[***] 
 
                                                           
136 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
137 Words and symbols “Minimum three members – two internal and one external.” omitted by SEBI (Employees' 
Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016.

[Page 75]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
w.p.m. in typing. 
 
Three years as 
Secretaries in reputed 
Organisations. 
Should be wellvers ed 
in operation of Fax 
and Computers and 
must necessarily have 
experience of working 
with the latest 
packages i.e. Windows 
NT and Office 99. 
Accounts 
Assistant 
 
 
Direct 
Recruitment 
 138[only through 
written 
examination] 
Upto 30 years 
 
Bachelor's Degree in 
Commerce with 
55% of marks. 
 
Minimum three 
years as counts 
assistant preferably in 
a Financial Institution. 
-- 139[***] 
                                                           
138 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
139 Words and symbols “Minimum three members – two internal and one external.” omitted by SEBI (Employees' 
Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016.

[Page 76]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
Library 
Assistant 
 
Direct 
Recruitment  
140[only through 
written 
examination]. 
 
Upto 30 years 
 
Graduate in any 
discipline, with 
Bachelor's Degree 
(minimum 55% in 
the aggregate) in 
Library Science. 
 
Minimum three 
years as Library 
Assistant preferably 
in a Financial 
Institution. 
-- 141[***]  
 
142[Junior 
Secretarial 
Assistant 
Direct 
Recruitment 
143[only through 
written 
examination] 
Upto 28 years 
Qualification shall be 
as specified above for 
Secretarial Staff 
- 144[***] 
                                                           
140 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
141 Words and symbols “Minimum three members – two internal and one external.” omitted by SEBI (Employees' 
Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
142 Inserted by SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 12.10.2010.  
143 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
144 Words and symbols “Minimu m three members – two internal and one external.” omitted by SEBI (Employees' 
Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016.

[Page 77]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
Junior Accounts 
Assistant 
Direct 
Recruitment 
145[only through 
written 
examination] 
Upto 28 years 
Qualification shall be 
as specified above for 
Accounts Assistant 
- 146[***] 
Junior Library 
Assistant 
Direct 
Recruitment 
147[only through 
written 
examination] 
Upto 28 years  
Qualification shall be 
as specified above for 
Library Assistant 
- 148[***] 
149[Junior 
Engineer Direct 
Recruitment 
150[only through 
written 
examination] 
Up to 28 years  
Diploma in any 
engineering stream as 
may be required by the 
Board from time to 
time 
- 151[***] 
152 [Omitted Omitted Omitted -- Omitted 
                                                           
145 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
146 Words and sy mbols “Minimum three members – two internal and one external.” omitted by SEBI (Employees' 
Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
147 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
148 Words and symbols “Minimum three members – two internal and one external.” omitted by SEBI (Employees' 
Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
149 Inserted by SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2012, w.e.f. 0 2.05.2012. 
150 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
151 Words and symbols “Minimum three members – two internal and one external.” omitted by SEBI (Employees' 
Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
152 Omitted by SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 30.01.2008. Prior to omission, it 
read as following:

[Page 78]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
Messenger 
 
Direct 
Recruitment 
 
Upto 30 years 
VIII Standard 
 
-- 153[***] 
 
Cook Direct 
Recruitment 
154[only through 
written 
examination] 
 
Upto 30 years 
VIII Standard 
 
 155[***] 
 
Driver Direct Upto 30 years -- 157[***] 
                                                                                                                                                                                           
[Receptioni
st - cum – 
Telephone 
Operator 
 
 
Direct 
Recruitment 
152[only through 
written 
examination] 
 
 
 
 
Upto 30 years Graduate 
in any discipline in pass 
class, Diploma in Front 
Office Management and 
Telephone Operator 
Course. Minimum 3 
years as a Receptionist –
cum – Telephone 
Operator in reputed 
Institutions, preferably in 
Financial Institution. 
Should be w ell versed in 
operation of EPABX 
System, telex / fax / 
Xerox machine etc. 
--  
 
 
 
 
 
-- 
 
 
 
 
 
Minimum 
three 
members - two 
internal and 
one 
external.] 
 
 
 
153 Words and symbols “Minimum three members – two internal and one external.” omitted by SEBI (Employees' 
Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
154 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
155 Words and symbols “Minimum three members – two internal and one external.” omitted by SEBI (Employees' 
Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016.

[Page 79]
Name of 
the Post 
 
 
 
Mode of 
Recruitment & 
proportion of 
posts to be 
filled up 
through 
different modes 
Age, Qualification & 
Experience for 
Direct 
recruits119[/Contract 
Recruits, wherever 
applicable] 
 
Qualification & 
Experience for 
Deputation  
 
Composition of 
the selection 
Committee 120[/ 
Search-cum-
Selection 
Committee] 
Recruitment 
156[only through 
written 
examination] 
 
VIII Standard 
 
 
Messenger 
Cum - 
General 
Assistant 
Direct 
Recruitment 
158[only through 
written 
examination] 
 
Upto 30 years 
VIII Standard 
 
-- 159[***] 
 
 
 
1. General / Relaxation : 
 
[***]160 
a) The crucial date for determining the upper age limit specified in the schedule shall be the date 
indicated in the advertisement.  
b) The upper age limit may be relaxed by the Competent Authority upto a m aximum of three years 
for the reasons to be recorded in writing, if in the opinion of the Competent Authority sufficient 
number of candidates with the prescribed age limit is not likely to be forthcoming and high 
academic and professional qualifications an d experience of the candidates deserve consideration 
of such candidates. 
                                                                                                                                                                                           
157 Words and symbols “Minimum three members – two internal and one external.” omitted by SEBI (Employees' 
Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
156 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
158 Inserted by SEBI (Employees' Service)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
159 Words and symbols “Minimum three members – two internal and one external.” omitted by SEBI (Employees' 
Service) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 15 -12-2016. 
160 The words “In  the  event  of  non-availability  of  adequate  number  of  candidates for  interview,  the  minimum 
eligible  service of three years for promotion to the  next higher grade  or post may be  relaxed  by the competent 
authority upto a period not exceeding six months .” omitted by SEBI (Employees' Service) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 30.12.2022.

[Page 80]
c) 161[d)The Board may, after recording the reasons in writing, relax the minimum qualifications and 
experience required for various posts.] 
 
2. Reservations: 
 
a) Reservation, relaxation of age limit and other concessions required to be provided for candidates 
belonging to the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes, other backward classes, Ex-Service men and 
other special categories of persons shall be as applicable in terms of orders/guidelines etc. issued 
by the Central Government from time to time.  
b) In every selection committee constituted for the purpose of the recruitment, an officer of 
appropriate rank belonging to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe may also be inducted as a 
member in case no member of selection committee belongs to Scheduled caste or Schedule Tribe. 
 
 
3. Advertisement of Vacancies: 
 
Vacancies in the Board to be filled by direct recruitment 162[, not being campus recruitment] shall be 
notified in the following manner: 
a) In relation t o direct recruitment of posts except as specified in clause (b) below, it shall be 
notified by advertisement in atleast three leading daily national news papers, with a view to cover 
the maximum area of the country.  
b) In relation to such posts to which the law relating to employment exchanges is applicable, by 
notifying the concerned employment exchange with a request to nominate five candidates against 
each vacancy. In case, the candidates nominated by the employment exchange fail to satisfy the 
requirement of selection, the vacancies shall be filled subject to the provisions of the law 
applicable to such employment exchanges, by issuing advertisement as per Clause (a) above. 
 
4. Medical Fitness and Verification of Antecedents on initial appointment in the Board: 
 
a) A candidate, except in the case of appointments by deputation or by promotion, will be required 
to undergo medical tests as per prescribed standards to satisfy the appointing Authority of his 
medical fitness.  
b) The antecedents of a candidate, except in the case of appointments by deputation or by 
promotion, will be verified as per the prescribed procedure and the said verification shall be 
completed during the period of probation. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
161 Inserted by SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 10.11.2003. 
162 Inserted by SEBI (Employees’ Service) (Amendment) Regulations, 2010, w.e.f. 17.02.2007.

[Page 81]
APPENDIX 
 
FORM A 
 
DECLARATION OF FIDELITY AND SECRECY 
 
I ........... .................................................................................................. do hereby declare that I w ill 
faithfully, truly and to the best of my skill and ability execute and perform the duties required of me as an 
employee of the SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA and which properly relate to the 
office or position held by me in or in relation to the said Board.  
I further declare that I will not communicate or allow to be communicated to any person not legally 
entitled thereto any information relating to the affairs of the Board or relating to the affairs of any person 
having any dealing with the Board, nor will I allow any such person to inspect or have access to any 
books or documents belonging to or in the possession of the B oard and relating to the business of the 
Board or the business of any person having any dealing with the Board.  
 
(Signature)  
Place:  
Date:  
Name in full...........................................................  
Nature of appointment...........................................................  
Signed before me  
.......................................................... 
........................................................... 
 
 
FORM B 
DECLARATION OF DOMICILE 
I, the undersigned, having been appointed to the service of the Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
hereby declare ............................................................. (place) in ........................... (district) as my place of 
domicile.  
OR 
The above is not my place of birth. My pl ace of birth is.................................... (place) in  
.................................... (district) but ............................... (place) has been declared as my place of domicile

[Page 82]
for the reasons given below:  
..............................................................................................  
..............................................................................................  
 
Name in full   .........................................................  
Nature of appointment  .........................................................  
Date of appointment  .........................................................  
Signature   .........................................................                
Place    .........................................................  
Date    .........................................................     
 
 
FORM C 
DECLARATION TO BE BOUND BY THE EMPLOYEES SERVICE REGULATIONS 
I hereby declare that I have read and understood the Securities and Exchang e Board of India (Employees 
Service) Regulations, 2001 and I hereby subscribe to and agree to be bound by the said Regulations, as 
may be in force from time to time.  
 
Name in full    .........................................................  
Nature of appointment   .........................................................  
Date of appointment   .........................................................  
Signature    .........................................................  
Witness     .........................................................  
Place     .........................................................  
Date     .........................................................

[Page 83]
Note: 
1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) Regulations, 2001, was published in 
the Gazette of India on 6th September, 2001 vide S.O. No. 857(E).  
2. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) Regulations, 2001 was amended  on 
– 
(a) 23rd December, 2003 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2003 vide F. No. SEBI/LE/15/2003.  
(b) 25th May, 2004  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2004 vide S.O. No.623 (E).  
(c) 11th April, 2007  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2007 vide F. No.11/LC/GN/2006/2143.  
(d) 14th January, 2010 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2010 vide notification No. LADNRO/GN/2009-10/28/190983. 
(e) 12th October, 2010 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2010 vide notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2010-11/17/22954. 
(f) 10th October, 2011 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011 vide notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/26/31671. 
(g) 2nd May 2012 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2012 vide notification No. LADNRO/GN/2012-13/03/5290. 
(h) 19th November 2012 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2012 vide notification No. LAD -NRO/GN/2012-
13/223/5429. 
(i)  8th October, 2013 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013 vide notification No. LADNRO/GN/2013-14/27/6721. 
(j) 26th February, 2015 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2015 vide notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/22/366.  
(k) 21st April, 2015 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2015 vide notification No. SEBINRO/OIAE/GN/2015-16/002. 
(l) 30th November, 2016 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/016. 
(m) 15th December, 2016 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2016 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/024. 
(n) 27th April, 2017 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2017-18/001. 
(o) 17th May, 2017 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2017 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2017-18/002. 
(p) 13th July, 2017 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees’ Service) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2017 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2017-18/010. 
(q) 27th April, 2018 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/09. 
(r) 31st May, 2018 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2018 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/18. 
(s) 13th August, 2018 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2018 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/29. 
(t) 8th May 2019 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2019/15. 
(u) 5th August, 2020 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Ser vice) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020vide Notification No. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2020/26. 
(v) 24th January, 2022 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service)

[Page 84]
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide Notification No. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2022/65. 
(w) 22nd June, 2022  by Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Employees'  Service) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/87. 
(x) 30th December, 2022 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/111. 
(y) 15th May, 2023 by  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/129. 
(z) 20th October, 2023 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/156. 
(aa) 7th February, 2024 by  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/165. 
(bb) 6th May, 2024 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/172. 
(cc) 08th September, 202 5 by Sec urities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/263. 
(dd) 11th July, 2026 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employees' Service) ( Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026 vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2026/311. 
 
*** 
 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations.]
