[Page 1]
1 
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (PROCEDURE FOR MAKING, 
AMENDING AND REVIEWING OF REGULATIONS) REGULATIONS, 2025 
 
A regulation for specifying the process of regulation making and for mandating the 
public consultation and engagement of stakeholders in the interest of transparency and 
for matters incidental or connected therewith.  
 
F. No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/229─ In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
31 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), section 30 of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) and section 25 of the Depositories Act, 
1996 (22 of 1996), the Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely, -  
 
CHAPTER I 
        PRELIMINARY 
 
1. Short title and commencement 
(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure 
for making, amending and reviewing of Regulations) Regulations, 2025. 
(2) These regulations shall come  into force on the date of  their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 
 
2. Definitions 
(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, - 
(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b) “Board” means the Securities an d Exchange Board of India established under sub-
section (1) of section 3 of the Act; 
(c) “public comments”  means the feedback, suggestions or objections received on any 
proposal of the Board, from any person including investors, issuers, persons regulated 
by the Board, organizations, regulatory authorities and public interest groups, engaged 
directly or indirectly in the Indian securities market;  
(d) “regulations” means the “regulations” framed by the Board in exercise of the powers 
conferred under the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), 
the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996), the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or under 
any enactment conferring powers and specific functions on the Board  and shall also 
include amendment(s) made to an existing regulations.  
 
(2) Words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations, but defined in the Act , 
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956  (42 of 1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 
(22 of 1996), the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), or in the rules and regulations made 
thereunder, shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in such enactments or any 
amendments or re-enactments thereof, as the case may be.    
 
CHAPTER II 
FRAMING OF REGULATIONS

[Page 2]
2 
 
 
3. Framing of regulations 
The Board may make regulations as are necessary to carry out the purposes of the Act, the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 
1996), the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), or any other enactment that confers specific 
powers and functions on the Board.    
 
4. Public Consultation 
(1) For the purpose of making regulations, the concerned Department(s) of the Board shall 
publish the following on its official website to seek public comments: - 
(a) the proposal(s) containing the suggested changes to the policy, which shall include 
the draft of the proposed regulations; 
(b) the statutory provision enabling the proposed regulations;  
(c) a statement of the regulatory intent and objectives of the proposed regulations; and  
(d) the manner, process and timelines for receiving public comments. 
(2) A minimum of 21 calendar days  shall ordinarily be provided  for receiving public 
comments. 
(3) On receipt of public comments, the rationale for rejection , if any,  of comments shall be 
published by the concerned Department(s) on the official website of the Board. 
 
5. Approval of Regulations  
(1)  The proposed regulations and the related agenda paper shall be considered by the Board in 
terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Board Meetings) 
Regulations, 2001.    
(2)  If the agenda paper has been prepared pursuant to a public consultation, it shall include a 
systematic compilation of comments received or a summary of such comments, and the 
remarks thereon of the concerned Department(s) of the Board.  
 
6. Regulations in case of exigency 
Where the Board is of the opinion that it is expedient in the interest of the investors  and the 
regulation and development of  the securities market that the adherence to the public 
consultation process would defeat the purpose of the proposed regulation, the Chairperson may 
dispense with the process of public consultation or reduce the time period for receiving public 
comments: 
       Provided that the information in respect of matters where public consultation has been 
dispensed with or where the time period for public consultation has been reduced, shall be 
placed before the Board.  
 
 
 
CHAPTER III 
AMENDMENT AND REVIEW OF REGULATIONS 
 
7. Amendment of Regulations

[Page 3]
3 
 
Subject to the provisions of regulations 6 and 9, an amendment to the existing regulations shall 
follow the same procedure as specified in Chapter II. 
 
8. Review of Regulations 
The concerned Department(s) of the Board shall periodically review the regulations that are in 
force keeping in view:- 
(a) their stated objectives; 
(b) experience gained through surveillance, supervision and enforcement actions; 
(c) the relevant orders passed by courts or tribunals; 
(d) global best practices, if applicable; 
(e) the relevance and needs of a changed environment, if any; 
(f) the scope for reducing redundancies and promoting ease of doing business; and 
(g) any other factor as deemed relevant by the Board. 
 
 
 
CHAPTER IV 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
9. Non-applicability on certain matters 
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, the provisions of these regulations 
shall not be applicable to –  
(a) the internal organizational matters of the Board, including those governing the conduct 
of its meetings, administration and service conditions of its officers and employees; 
(b) regulations that only relate to procedural requirements or that which in the opinion of 
the Chairperson do not result in any substantive policy changes;  
(c) any amendment to these regulations; and 
(d) proposals for which public comments have already been sought or received or to those 
regulations which are approved by the Board but not yet notified , prior to the coming 
into force of these regulations. 
(2) The Board shall be informed of matters where the procedure laid down in these regulations 
is not made applicable in terms of sub-regulation (1). 
 
10. Savings 
(1) Regulations which are in force as on the date of coming into force of these regulations shall 
remain valid unless amended, repealed or substituted.    
(2) No regulations framed by the Board or any action taken under the said regulations shall be 
invalid merely by reason of non-adherence to the procedure specified in these regulations.  
 
 
 
BABITHA RAYUDU 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

[Page 4]
4 
 
Note: 
 
1. The  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for making, amending and 
reviewing of Regulations) Regulations, 2025 were published in the  G azette  of  India  
on  February  15,  2025  vide  notification  No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/229. 
 
 
*** 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations.]
