[Page 1]
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (SELF REGULATORY 
ORGANIZATIONS) REGULATIONS, 2004 
 
[Amended upto February 7, 2023] 
 
F. No. SEBI/LAD/DOP/3348/2004. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
30 read with clause (d) of sub -section (2) of section 11 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes the following Regulations, 
namely:- 
 
CHAPTER - I  
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These Regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Self 
Regulatory Organizations) Regulations, 2004. 
 
(2) These Regulations shall come into force on such date as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that different dates may be specified for different provisions of these regulations 
and any reference in any such provision to the commencement of these regulations shall be 
construed as a reference to the commencement of that provision: 
1 [Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall come into force in relation 
to different classes of intermediaries on such dates as the Board may by notification in the 
Official Gazette appoint.] 
 
Definitions 
2.  (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, - 
(a) "Act" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b) "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 
3 of the Act; 
                                            
1 Inserted by the SEBI (Self Regulatory Organizations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 07.01.2013

[Page 2]
(c) "agent" means any person who is associated with securities market and who conducts 
the business of distribution of securities products; 
(d) "certificate" means a certificate of  recognition granted to a Self Regulatory 
Organization by the Board under sub -regulation (1) of regulation 5 and includes a 
certificate renewed under regulation 9; 
(e) "company" means a company which has been granted license under section 25 of the 
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); 
2 [(ea) "distributor" means distributor as defined in clause (g) of sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Certification of Associated 
Persons in the Securities Markets) Regulations, 2007;] 
(f) "economic offence" means an offence to which the Economic Offences (Inapplicability 
of Limitation) Act, 1974 (12 of 1974), is applicable for the time being and includes an 
offence under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, Securities Contr acts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 and Depositories Act, 1996; 
(g) "governing norms" mean the governing norms of a Self Regulatory Organization made 
in accordance with sub-regulation (1) of regulation 15; 
3[(h) "intermediary" means intermediary as defined in clause ( g) of sub-regulation (1) of 
regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 
2008;] 
4[(ha) "issuer" means issuer as defined in clause (i) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Certification of Associated Persons in the 
Securities Markets) Regulations, 2007;] 
(i)"member" means an intermediary who has been admitted as a member of a Self 
Regulatory Organization and includes an agent who has been so admitted; 
(j) "office bearer" in relation to a Self Regulatory Organization means its Chairman, 
Managing Director, any whole time director or Chief Executive Officer, by whatever name 
called, and includes any person named as such by the Self Regulatory Organization in its 
application for grant or renewal of recognition made under these regulations;  
                                            
2 Inserted by the SEBI (Self Regulatory Organizations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 07.01.2013. 
3  Substituted by the SEBI (Self Regulatory Organizations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 
07.01.2013. Prior to its substitution, clause (h) read as under: 
"(h) "intermediary" means any person who is registered with the Board under section 12 of the Act;" 
4 Inserted by the SEBI (Self Regulatory Organizations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 07.01.2013

[Page 3]
(k) "Self Regulatory Organization" means an organization of intermediaries which is 
representing a particular segment of the securities market and which is duly recognised by 
the Board under these regulations, but excludes a stock exchange. 
 
(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in the regulations, but defined in the Act, 
shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act. 
 
CHAPTER II 
RECOGNITION OF SELF REGULATORY ORGANIZATION 
 
Recognition of Self Regulatory Organization. 
3. (1) Any group or association of intermediaries, which is desirous of being recognized as 
a Self Regulatory Organization, may form a company registered under section 25 of the 
Companies Act, 1956 and such company may make an application to the Board for grant 
of certificate of recognition as a Self Regulatory Organization: 
5[Provided that for the purpose of this sub-regulation a distributor shall be deemed to be an 
intermediary]: 
6[Provided further that the Board may, in case of distributors engaged by asset management 
companies of mutual funds, grant certificate of recognition to only one group or association 
making an application under this regulation.] 
(2) Every application made by s uch company under sub -regulation (1) shall contain such 
particulars as may be specified and shall be accompanied by a copy of the governing norms 
of Self Regulatory Organization and also a copy of the memorandum and articles of 
association relating in general to the constitution of the Self Regulatory Organization and 
in particular, to -  
(a) Board of Directors of Self Regulatory Organization, its constitution and 
powers of management and the manner in which its business would be transacted; 
(b) the powers and duties of the office bearers of Self Regulatory Organization; 
                                            
5 Inserted by the SEBI (Self Regulatory Organizations) (Amendment) Regulations, 201 3 w.e.f. 07.01.2013 
6Inserted by the SEBI (Self Regulatory Organizations) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2013 
w.e.f. 18.11.2013

[Page 4]
(c) the admission into the Self Regulatory Organization of members, agents, 
their qualifications for membership, and the exclusion, suspension, expulsion and 
readmission of members therefrom or thereinto; 
 
(3) Every application under sub -regulation (1) shall be signed on behalf of the applicant 
under authority of its Board of Directors by its Chairman, Managing Director, Chief 
Executive Officer or whole time director. 
 
(4) Every application under sub-regulation (1) shall be made to the Board in Form A of the 
first schedule and shall be accompanied by a non -refundable application fee, as specified 
in Part A of the second schedule, to be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof. 
 
Eligibility criteria. 
4. The Board shall not consider an application for grant of a certificate under regulation 3 
unless the applicant satisfies the following conditions, namely:- 
(a) the applicant is a company which has been granted license under section 25 
of Companies Act, 1956; 
(b) the applicant has, in its memorandum of association, specified admission 
of members and discharging the functions of Self Regulatory Organization 
as one of its main objects; 
(c) the applicant has a minimum networth of one crore rupees; 
(d) the applicant has adequate infrastructure, to enable it to discharge its 
functions as a Self Regulatory Organization in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act and these regulations; 
(e) the applicant referred to in regulation 3 and its directors have the 
professional competence, financial soundness and general reputation of 
fairness and integrity to the satisfaction of the Board; 
(f) neither the applicant, nor any director of the applicant is involved in any 
legal proceeding connected with the securities market, which may have an 
adverse impact on the interests of the investors;

[Page 5]
(g) neither the applicant, nor any director has at any time in the past been 
convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude or any economic 
offence; 
(h) the applicant has, in its employment, persons having adequate professional 
and other relevant experience to the satisfaction of the Board; 
7[(i)  the applicant is a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in 
Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediarie s) 
Regulations, 2008;] 
(j)  grant of certificate to the applicant is in the interest of investors and the 
securities market. 
 
8[Grant of in-principle approval. 
4A. Where the applicant is not in compliance with the provisions of clauses (c), (d) or (h) 
of regulation 4, on the date of submission of the application under regulation 3, the Board 
may grant an in-principle approval to the applicant, which shall be valid for a period of one 
hundred and eighty days, within which the applicant shall ensure compliance with all 
provisions of regulation 4: 
Provided that the Board may, upon sufficient cause shown by the applicant, extend 
the validity of the in-principle approval for a further period not exceeding ninety days.] 
 
Grant of recognition as a Self Regulatory Organization. 
5. (1) If the Board is satisfied, after making such inquiry as may be necessary in this behalf 
and after obtaining such further information, if any, as it may require, - 
(a) that the articles and governing norms of the applicant applying for 
recognition are in conformity with such conditions as may be specified by 
the Board; 
                                            
7 Substituted by the SEBI (Self Regulatory Organisations) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 
18.11.2013. Prior to its substitution, clause (i) read as under: 
“(i) the applicant, in all other respects, is a fit and proper person for the grant of a certificate;”  
8 Inserted by the SEBI (Self Regulatory Organizations) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 
18.11.2013.

[Page 6]
(b) that the applicant is willing to comply with any other conditions which the 
Board m ay impose for the purpose of carrying out the objects of these 
Regulations; and, 
(c) that it would be in the interest of the trade and also in the public interest to 
grant recognition to the applicant as a Self Regulatory Organization; 
 
the Board may grant certificate of recognition to the applicant as a Self Regulatory 
Organization in Form B1 of the First Schedule subject to such terms and conditions as the 
Board may deem fit and appropriate. 
 
(2) The conditions which the Board may speci fy under sub-regulation (1) for the grant of 
recognition to the applicant as a Self Regulatory Organization may include, among other 
matters, conditions relating to, - 
(i) the qualification for membership of the Self Regulatory Organization; 
(ii) the representation of the Board in the Board of Directors of the Self 
Regulatory Organization by such number of directors not exceeding 
four as the Board may nominate in this behalf; and 
(iii) the maintenance of accounts of members and their audit by chartered 
accountants whenever such audit is required by the Board. 
 
(3) No articles of Self Regulatory Organization relating to any of the matters specified in 
clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 3 shall be amended except with 
the prior written approval of the Board. 
 
Application to conform to the requirements 
6.  9 [Subject to the provisions of regulation 4A, any application] for a certificate, which is 
not complete in all respects or does not conform to the requirements of these regulations 
and particularly regulations 3, 4 and 5 or instructions specified in Form A shall be rejected 
by the Board: 
                                            
9  Substituted for the words “Any application” by the SEBI (Self Regulatory Organizations) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f.18.11.2013

[Page 7]
Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the Board shall give an opportunity 
to the applicant to remove such objections as may be indicated  by the Board, within 30 
days of the date of receipt of relevant communication, from the Board: 
Provided further that the Board may, on sufficient cause being shown, extend the time 
for removal of objections by such further time, not exceeding 30 days as t he Board may 
consider fit, to enable the applicant to remove such objections. 
 
Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation 
7. (1)The Board may require the applicant to furnish such further information or 
clarification as it may consider necessary for the purpose of processing of the application. 
 
(2) The Board, if it so desires, may require the applicant to appear before it through an 
authorized representative for personal representation in connection with the grant of a 
certificate of recognition. 
 
Conditions of certificate and validity period. 
8. (1) The certificate granted under regulation 5 shall be, subject to the following 
conditions, namely: - 
(a) the applicant shall comply with the provisions of the Act, applicable 
regulations and guidelines, directions or circulars issued by the Board from 
time to time; 
(b) any information or particulars furnished to the Board by the applicant shall 
not be false or misleading in any material respect; 
 
(c) where any material information or particulars furnished to the Board by the 
applicant, in or in connection with the application for recognition, has 
undergone change subsequent to its furnishing, the applicant shall forthwith 
inform the fact to the Board in writing; 
 
(2) The certificate of recognition shall be valid for a period of five years.

[Page 8]
Renewal of certificate. 
9. (1) Any Self Regulatory Organization desirous of obtaining renewal of the recognition 
granted to it, shall make to the Board an application for the renewal of the certificate of 
recognition in Form A of the First Schedule. 
(2) Such application shall be made not less than three months before expiry of the period 
of validity of the certificate, specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 8. 
(3) The application for renewal made under sub-regulation (1), - 
(a) shall be accompanied by a renewal fee as specified in the second schedule; and, 
(b) as far as may be, shall be dealt with in the same manner as if it were an 
application for the grant of a fresh certificate under regulation 3. 
(4) If the Board is satisfied that the certificate of recognition already granted to the Self 
Regulatory Organizatio n under sub -regulation (1) of regulation 5 or the certificate 
previously renewed under this regulation deserves to be renewed, the Board may renew 
such certificate in Form B2 of the First Schedule subject to such terms and conditions as it 
may deem fit and appropriate. 
 
Procedure where certificate is not granted 
10. (1) If, after considering an application made under regulation 3 or regulation 9, as the 
case may be, the Board is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted or renewed, 
it may, after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being hea rd, reject the 
application within a period of thirty days of receipt of such application complete in all 
respects or within thirty days of receipt of further information or clarification sought under 
regulation 7. 
(2) If any application is rejected under s ub-regulation (1), the fact shall be communicated 
to the applicant forthwith, stating the grounds for such rejection. 
 
Effect of refusal to grant certificate 
11. (1) An applicant referred to in sub regulation (1) of regulation 3 whose application for 
the grant of a certificate has been rejected under sub -regulation (1) of regulation 10 shall 
not undertake any activity as Self Regulatory Organization.

[Page 9]
(2) A Self Regulatory Organization referred to in regulation 9 whose application for the 
renewal of certificate has been rejected by the Board shall on and from the date of the receipt 
of the communication from the Board under sub regulation (2) of regulation 10 cease to 
carry on any activity as Self Regulatory Organization. 
(3) If the Board is satisfied that it is in the interests of investors to do so, it may permit the 
Self Regulatory Organization referred to under sub-regulation (2) to complete the functions 
or obligations already initiated or undertaken by it during the pendency of the application 
or during the period of validity of the certificate. 
(4) The Board may in order to protect the interests of investors, issue directions with regard 
to the transfer of records, documents or reports relating to the functions of the Self 
Regulatory Organization, whose applicat ion for the grant or renewal of a certificate has 
been rejected. 
(5) The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, appoint any person to take 
charge of the records, documents or reports relating to the organization referred to in sub - 
regulation (4) and for this purpose also determine the terms and conditions of such 
appointment. 
 
CHAPTER III 
COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONS OF SELF REGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS 
 
Composition of Board of Directors. 
12. (1) The Articles of Association of a Self Regulatory Organization shall provide for the 
following: - 
(a) There shall be a Board of Directors of the Self Regulatory Organization and 
majority of directors shall be independent directors. 
(b) The independent directors shall not be required to hold any qualification 
shares. 
(c) The Board of Directors shall consist of nine directors out of which five 
directors shall be nominated by the Board and the remaining four shall be 
elected by the members of the Self Regulatory Organization. 
(d) The General Superintendence, direction and management of the affairs of 
the Self Regulatory Organization shall vest in its Board of Directors, which

[Page 10]
may exercise all powers and do all acts and things which may be exercised 
or done by the Self Regulatory Organization. 
(e) There shall be a Chairman, who shall be an independent professional, 
appointed by Board of Directors, with the prior approval of the Board. 
(f) The Chairman shall be responsible for day -to-day administration of Self 
Regulatory Organization and impl ementing the decisions of Board of 
Directors. 
(g) The Board of Directors may establish committees including disciplinary 
committee, screening committee, arbitration committee or remuneration 
committee in order to carry out the purposes of these regulations: 
Provided that  the committees constituted under this regulation may 
consist wholly  of other persons or partly of directors and partly of other 
persons: 
Provided further that the majority of members of each such committee 
shall be independent. 
(h) The office bearers of Board of Directors shall relinquish their office, when 
the Board passes an order under clause (c) of sub -section (4) of section 11 
of the Act. 
(i) The Board of Directors of the Self Regulatory Organization shall be 
reconstituted as and when required by the Board. 
 
Membership of Self Regulatory Organization. 
13. (1) After commencement of these regulations, any application for registration or 
renewal of registration as an intermediary with the Board under the respective regulations 
applicable to such intermediaries, shall in case of any applicant who is a member of a Self 
Regulatory Organization or who ought to be a member of a Self Regulatory Organization, 
be made only through the Self Regulatory Organization of which he is a member, in the 
specified manner. 
(2) The application under sub -regulation (1) shall be forwar ded by the Self Regulatory 
Organization to the Board along with its recommendation for grant or refusal of certificate 
of registration not later than 30 days from the date of its receipt.

[Page 11]
(3) The Self Regulatory Organization shall also give the reasons for its  recommendation 
either for granting certificate of recognition or for refusal of certificate of registration by 
the Board. 
 
Functions and Obligations of Self Regulatory Organization. 
14. (1) A Self Regulatory Organization shall always abide by the directions of the Board. 
(2) The Self Regulatory Organization shall be responsible for investor protection and 
education of investors or its members and shall ensure observance of Securities Laws by 
its members. 
(3) The Self Regulatory Organization shall specify standard of conduct for its members and 
also shall be responsible for the implementation of the same by its members. 
(4) The Self Regulatory Organization shall conduct inspection and audit of its members, 
on regular basis, through independent auditors. 
(5) The Self Regulatory Organization shall submit its annual report to the Board. 
(6) The Self Regulatory Organization shall treat all its members and the applications for 
membership in a fair and transparent manner. 
(7) The Self Regulatory Organization may collect admission and membership fees from its 
members for carrying out the purposes of these regulations. 
(8) The Self Regulatory Organization shall promptly inform the Board of violations of the 
provisions of the Act, the rules, the regulat ions, the directions, the circulars or the 
guidelines by any of its members. 
(9) The Self Regulatory Organization shall conduct screening and certification tests for its 
members, agents and such other persons as it may determine. 
(10) Self Regulatory Organization s hall conduct training programmes for its members or 
agents and also conduct awareness programmes for securities market investors. 
(11) The Self Regulatory Organization shall make endeavors for introduction of best 
business practices amongst its members. 
(12) The Self Regulatory Organization shall act in utmost good faith and shall avoid conflict 
of interest in the conduct of its functions. 
(13) The Self Regulatory Organization shall comply with the norms of corporate 
governance as applicable to listed companies.

[Page 12]
(14) The Self Regulatory Organization may discharge such other functions and obligations 
as may be specified by the Board, from time to time. 
 
Governing norms of Self Regulatory Organization. 
15. (1) A Self Regulatory Organization may, subject to the previous approval of the Board, 
make governing norms and articles consistent with the provisions of the Act and these 
regulations. 
 
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the 
governing norms or articles may provide for:- 
(i) eligibility criteria for admission and removal of members from Self 
Regulatory Organization; 
(ii) manner and the periodicity of furnishing information to the Board and to its 
members; 
(iii) arbitration mechanism for resolvin g disputes between members and / or 
between members and their constituents; 
(iv) procedure for proceeding against the member committing breach of the 
governing norms or articles including provisions for suspension or expulsion 
of members from the Self Regulatory Organization; 
(v) internal control standards including procedure for inspection, auditing, 
reviewing, monitoring and surveillance of its members by Self Regulatory 
Organization; 
(vi) code of conduct specifying standards for its members in the conduct of 
business; 
(vii) procedure for conduct of election of the office bearers and members of the 
committees; 
(viii) obligation of members to supply such information or explanation and to 
produce such documents relating to the business as Board of Directors may 
require; 
(ix) manner of disc iplinary action against its members by Self Regulatory 
Organization; 
(x) contents and format of the annual report;

[Page 13]
(xi) procedure for conduct of the meetings, quorum etc of Board of Directors; 
(xii) manner of maintaining accounts or records of the Self Regulatory  
Organization; and, 
(xiii) reporting requirements to the Board on monthly basis about various aspects of 
its functioning including policy initiatives, progress in certification, number 
of members admitted and disciplinary action taken against members, if any. 
 
(3) The governing norms or articles shall also provide that the contravention of any of the 
governing norms shall render the member of Self Regulatory Organization concerned liable 
to one or more of the following punishments, namely:- 
(i) forfeiture of shares; 
(ii) expulsion from membership; 
(iii) suspension from membership for a specified period; 
(iv) any other penalty of a like nature not involving the payment of money. 
 
(4) Where the Board considers it expedient so to do, it may, by order in writing, direct a 
Self Regulatory Organization to make any governing norms or to amend or revoke any of 
them within such period as it may specify in this behalf. 
 
(5) If a Self Regulatory Organization fails or neglects to comply with such order within the 
specified period, the Board may make, amend or revoke the governing norms either in the 
form specified in the order or with such modifications as the Board may think fit. 
CHAPTER IV 
INSPECTION AND AUDIT 
 
Board's right to inspect. 
16. (1) Where it appears to the Board so to do, it may appoint one or more persons as 
inspecting authority to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, other records and 
documents of the Self Regulatory Organization for any of the purposes specified in s ub- 
regulation (2). 
 
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows, namely: -

[Page 14]
(a) to ensure that the provisions of the Act, the regulations, the directions and the 
circulars issued by the Board are being complied with; 
(b) to inquire into the complaints received from members, investors, or any other 
person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the Self Regulatory 
Organization; or, 
(c) to inquire suo motu, in the interest of securities business or investors' interest, into 
the affairs of the Self Regulatory Organization. 
 
Procedure for inspection. 
17.(1) Before undertaking any inspection under regulation 16, the Board shall give a 
reasonable notice to the Self Regulatory Organization for that purpose. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied 
that in the interest of the investors or in public interest, no such notice should be given, it 
may by an order in writing, direct that the inspection of the affairs of the Self R egulatory 
Organization be taken up without such notice. 
 
(3) On being empowered by the Board, the inspecting authority shall undertake the 
inspection and the Self Regulatory Organization against whom an inspection is being 
carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided under regulation 18. 
 
Obligations of Self Regulatory Organization on inspection by the Board. 
18. (1) It shall be the duty of the Chairman, every Director, officer and employee of the 
Self Regulatory Organization, who is being inspected to produce to the inspecting authority 
or to any person authorized by him, such books, accounts and other documents in their 
custody or control and furnish to the Board the statements and information relating to the 
activities of Self Regul atory Organization in securities market within such time as the 
Board may require. 
 
(2) The Self Regulatory Organization shall allow the inspecting authority or any person 
authorized by him to have reasonable access to the premises occupied by the Self 
Regulatory Organization or by any other person on its behalf and also extend reasonable

[Page 15]
facility for examining any books, records, documents and computer data in the possession 
of the Self Regulatory Organization or any other person and also provide copies  of 
documents or other materials which, in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant. 
 
(3) The inspecting authority in the course of inspection shall be entitled to examine or 
record statements of the Chairman, Director, any member and employee of t he Self 
Regulatory Organization. 
 
(4) It shall be the duty of the Chairman, every Director, officer and employee of the Self 
Regulatory Organization to give to the inspecting authority all assistance in connection 
with the inspection, which the Self Regulatory  Organization may reasonably be expected 
to give. 
 
Submission of report to the Board. 
19. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, submit an inspection report to the 
Board. 
 
Appointment of auditor. 
20. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained abo ve, the Board may appoint a qualified 
auditor to inspect the books of account or the affairs of the Self Regulatory Organization. 
Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting 
authority as mentioned in regulation 16 and the obligations of Self Regulatory Organization 
mentioned in regulation 18 shall be applicable to an inspection under this regulation. 
 
(2) The Board shall be entitled to recover the expenses of such audit or inspection as may 
be incurred by it, includin g fees paid to the auditors, from the concerned Self Regulatory 
Organization. 
 
Power of the Board to call for periodical returns or direct inquiries to be made. 
21. (1) Every Self Regulatory  Organization shall furnish to the Board such periodical 
returns relating to its affairs as may be specified.

[Page 16]
(2) Every Self Regulatory Organization and every member thereof shall maintain and 
preserve for such periods such books of account and other docu ments as the Board after 
consultation with Board of Directors of Self Regulatory Organization concerned, may 
specify in the interests of the trade or in the public interest and such books of account and 
other documents shall be subject to inspection at all reasonable times by the Board. 
 
(3) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-regulation (1) and (2), if the Board 
is satisfied that it is in the interests of the trade or in the public interest so to do, it may, by 
order, in writing, - 
(a) call upon B oard of Directors of a Self Regulatory Organization or any member 
thereof to furnish in writing such information or explanation relating to the affairs of the 
Self Regulatory Organization or of the member in relation to the Self Regulatory 
Organization as the Board may require; or 
(b) appoint one or more persons to make an inquiry in the prescribed manner in relation 
to the affairs of a Self Regulatory Organization or the affairs of any members of the Self 
Regulatory Organization in relation to the Self Regulatory Organization and submit a 
report of the result of such inquiry to the Board within such time as may be specified in 
the order or, in the case of inquiry in relation to the affairs of any of the members of a 
Self Regulatory Organization direct Board of Directors to make the inquiry and submit 
its report to the Board. 
(4) Where an inquiry in relation to the affairs of a Self Regulatory Organization or the affairs 
of any of its members in relation to the Self Regulatory Organization has been undertaken 
under sub-regulation (3), - 
(a) the Chairman, every director, manager, secretary, or other officer of the Self 
Regulatory Organization. 
(b) every member of such Self Regulatory Organization. 
(c) if the member of the Self Regulatory Organization is a firm, every partner, manager, 
secretary or other officer of the firm; and, 
(d) every other person or body of persons who has had dealings in the course of business 
with any of the persons mentioned in clause (a), (b) or (c) whether directly or indirectly; 
shall be bound to produce before the authority making the inquiry all such books of account, 
and other documents in his custody or power relating to or having a bearing on the subject

[Page 17]
matter of such inquiry and also furnish to the authority such statement or information as he 
may require within such time as may be specified by him. 
 
CHAPTER V  
ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 
 
Obligation of Board of Directors to take disciplinary action against a member if 
so directed by the Board. 
22. (1) After receiving the report of an enquiry m ade under regulation 21, the Board may 
take such action as it deems proper and, in particular, may direct Board of Directors of the 
Self Regulatory Organization to take such disciplinary action against the delinquent 
member, including expulsion, suspension or any other penalty of a like nature not involving 
the levy of monetary penalty, as may be specified by it and thereupon, notwithstanding 
anything to the contrary contained in the articles or governing norms of the Self Regulatory 
Organization concerned, the Board of Directors of the Self Regulatory Organization shall 
give effect to the directions of the Board and shall not in any manner commute, revoke or 
modify the action taken in pursuance of such directions, without the prior written approval 
of the Board. 
(2) The Board may either on its own motion or on representation of the member concerned, 
modify or withdraw any of its directions issued under sub -regulation (1), if it is satisfied 
that there are sufficient grounds for doing so. 
 
Withdrawal of recognition. 
23. (1) If the Board is of the opinion that the recognition granted to a Self Regulatory 
Organization under the provisions of these Regulations should, in the interest of the trade 
or in the public interest, be withdrawn, it may serve a written notice in Form "C" on Board 
of Directors of the Self Regulatory Organization calling upon it to show cause as to why 
the recognition should not be withdrawn for the reasons stated in the notice. 
 
(2) Where a notice is issued under sub -regulation (1), the Boa rd may, after giving an 
opportunity to Board of Directors of the Self Regulatory Organization to be heard in the 
matter, withdraw, by passing an order, the recognition granted to the Self Regulatory

[Page 18]
Organization and thereupon sub-regulations (3), (4) and (5) of regulation 11 would apply 
as if the application of the Self Regulatory Organization for renewal of recognition has 
been rejected under regulation 10. 
 
(3) The Board shall promptly communicate such order to the concerned Self Regulatory 
Organization. 
 
(4) On receipt of the order passed under sub -regulation (2), the Self Regulatory 
Organization shall cease to carry on any activity as a Self Regulatory Organization and 
shall comply with such directions as may be issued by the Board under sub -regulation (2) 
read with sub- regulations (3), (4) or (5) of regulation 11, as the case may be. 
 
Action in case of violation. 
24. If any Self Regulatory Organization, any office bearer or member thereof violates 
any provisions of the Act or these regulations, it may be liable for - 
(a) action under Chapter VIA of the Act; 
(b) action under subsection (3) of section 12 of the Act; 
(c) action under subsection (4) of section 11 and section 11B of the Act; 
(d) action under section 24 of the Act; 
(e) such other action permissible under the Act which  may be deemed appropriate in the 
facts and circumstances of the case. 
 
 
FIRST SCHEDULE 
 FORMS 
FORM A  
(See Regulations 3 and 9) 
Application for recognition / renewal of a Self Regulatory  Organization under 
Regulation 3 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Self Regulatory 
Organizations) Regulations, 2003. 
To

[Page 19]
Subject : Application for recognition / renewal of a Self Regulatory Organization under 
Regulation 3 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Self Regulatory Organizations) 
Regulations, 2003. Sir, 
1. I, being duly authorized for the purpose, hereby apply on behalf of ............ (name and 
address of the applicant) being a company eligible to be recognized as a Self Regulatory 
Organization as defined in Regulation 2(i) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Self 
Regulatory Organizations) Regulations, 2003 for recognition / renewal for the purpose of 
the said Regulations. 
2. Four copies of the memorandum and articles of association of the Self R egulatory 
Organization and four copies of the governing norms are enclosed, alongwith the 
applicant's 
Board resolution dated _____ authorizing the undersigned to make this application on its 
behalf. 
3. All the necessary information required in the Annexure to this Form is enclosed. Any 
additional information will be furnished as and when called for by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India. 
4. I on behalf the Self Regulatory Organization hereby undertake to comply with the 
requirements of Regulation 4 of the said R egulations and such other conditions and terms 
as may be contained in the certificate of recognition or be specified or imposed 
subsequently. 
5. 10 [The fees has been remitted  through electronic payment mode as per details 
below]11***[] 
 
Yours faithfully 
Signature of authorized 
signatory with name and 
designation 
(On behalf of ________ <name of the applicant>) 
                                            
10 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 
6.3.2017. 
11 Omitted the words “/Demand Draft No .... dated for Rs  is attached” by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 .

[Page 20]
ANNEXURE TO FORM 'A' 
Part I - General 
1. Name of the applicant. 
2. Address. 
3. Date of establishment. 
 
Part II - Membership 
1. State the number of members at the time of application. Also specify how many are 
inactive. 
2. Do you insist on any minimum qualifications and experience before enrolling new 
members? If so give details. 
3. Do you collect any admission / entrance fee from your member? If so, how much? 
 
Part III - Board of Directors 
1. What is the present strength of your Board of Directors? Give details of the constitution, 
powers of management, election and tenure of the office Board of Directors, and the 
manner in which its business is transacted. 
 
2. How many SEBI's representatives are there? Furnish their names. 
 
3. Do you have any provision for the appointment of disciplinary committee, screening 
committee etc? If so, furnish the details of the method of their appointment, terms of office, 
powers and functions. 
 
4. Give the designations, powers and duties of office-bearers of your organization. Are any 
of these office - bearers in the pay of the Self Regulatory Organization? If so, give details 
as to the mode of their appointment, tenure of office and remuneration.

[Page 21]
Part IV - Miscellaneous 
1. Do you have any machinery for arbitration of disputes between members and / or 
between members and their constituents ? Give details. 
2. Are you charging admission fees from your members ? If so, give details. 
 
 
FORM B1 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Self Regulatory Organizations) Regulations, 
2003 
(See Regulation 5 )  
Certificate of Recognition 
1. In exercise of the powers conferred by regulation 5 of these regulations, the Board 
hereby grants a certificate of recognition No to M/s __________________to act as a Self 
Regulatory Organization in accordance with these regulations and the conditions 
mentioned in the annexure. 
2. Recognition Code for Self Regulatory Organization is ...............  
3. The certificate shall be valid from .............. to .................... and may be renewed as 
specified in Regulation 9 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Self Regulatory 
Organizations) Regulations, 2003. 
Place: By order 
Date : Sd/- 
For and on behalf 
of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 
Note: - Application for renewal of recognition shall be made so as to reach the Board 
not less than three months before the expiry of the period.

[Page 22]
Form B2 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Self Regulatory Organizations) Regulations, 
2003 
( See Regulation 9(4) )  
Certificate of renewal of Recognition 
1. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-regulation (4) of regulation 9, the Board 
hereby renews the certificate of recognition No. dated __________ , issued to 
M/s. ________________ , to function as a Self Regulatory Organization, for a further 
period 
of ______ years from ______ . 
2. Recognition Code for Self Regulatory Organization is ...............  
Place: By order 
Date : Sd/- 
For and on behalf 
of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 
Note: - Application for further renewal of recognition shall be made so as to reach the 
Board not less than three months before the expiry of the validity period of this 
certificate. 
 
FORM C  
(See Regulation 23) 
Notice to show cause against the withdrawal of registration 
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
Mumbai, the .... day of ..2003 
 
To, 
………………………… 
………………………………. 
(name and address of the Self Regulatory Organization) 
You are hereby called upon to show cause on or before  ..........................  at the office of

[Page 23]
.................................  (designation of the officer) why the certificate of recognition No. 
 .......  granted to you under Regulation 5 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Self 
Regulatory Organizations) Regulations, 2003, should not be withdrawn for the reasons 
given below: 
Signature of the Officer  
Designation 
 
SECOND SCHEDULE  
PART 'A' 
Securities And Exchange Board Of India (Self Regulatory Organizations) 
Regulations, 
2003 
[ See Regulation 3 (4) and 9 (3) ] FEES 
PART A 
AMOUNT TO BE PAID AS FEES 
 
 
PART B 
12[The fees specified above shall be paid by way of direct credit into the bank account through 
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other mode 
as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
                                            
12 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023. 
The fees specified above shall be paid *[by way of direct credit in the bank account through 
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by way of a demand draft in favour of 'Securities 
and Exchange Board of India' payable at Mumbai.  
*[Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regu lations, 2017, w.e.f. 
6.3.2017.] 
Application fee      25,000 
Recognition fee for grant of certificate    5,00,000 
Renewal fee      3,00,000

[Page 24]
Note: 
 
1.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Self Regulatory Organizations) 
Regulations, 2004, were published in the  Gazette  of  India  on  February 
19, 2004  vide  notification  No. SEBI/LAD/DOP/3348/2004. 
 
2.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Self Regulatory Organizations) 
Regulations, 2004, were amended on-   
 
a. January 7, 2013  by    the    Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  
(Self  Regulatory Organizations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 , 
vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2012-12/27/5469. 
b. November 18, 2013  by    the    Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  
India (Self Regula tory Organizations) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2013-14/31/6883. 
c. March 6, 2017 , by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2017, vide No. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/037. 
d. February 7, 2023 , by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Payment of Fees and Mode of Paymen t) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2023, vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/121. 
 
*** 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations.]
