[Page 1]
Page 1 of 8 
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (INVESTOR PROTECTION AND 
EDUCATION FUND) REGULATIONS, 2009 
 
[Amended upto September 02, 2025] 
 
No. LAD-NRO/GN/2009-10/05/163525.- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India hereby makes the following regulations, namely: - 
 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
 
Short title and commencement.  
 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor 
Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009. 
 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
 
Definitions. 
 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: - 
(a) ‘Act’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b) ‘Board’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of  the 
Act; 
(c) ‘Committee’ means the advisory committee constituted under regulation 7 of these regulations; 
(d) ‘financial year’ means the year commencing on the first day of April; 
(e) ‘Fund’ means the Investor Protection and Education Fund created by the Board under 
section 11 of the Act; 
(f) ‘investor’ means an investor in securities; 
(g) ‘legal proceedings’ means any proceedings befor e a court or tribunal where one thousand or 
more investors are affected or likely to be affected by:- 
(i) mis -statement, misrepresentat ion or omission in connection with the issue, sale or  
purchase of securities; 
(ii) non-receipt of securities allotted or refund of application monies paid by them; 
(iii) non-payment of dividend; 
(iv) default in redemption of securities or in payment of interest in terms of the offer 
document; 
(v) fraudulent and unfair trade practices or market manipulation; 
(vi) such other market misconduct which in the opinion of the Board may be deemed 
appropriate; but does not include any proceeding where the Board is a party or where the 
Board has initiated any enforcement action; 
(h) ‘Schedule’ means Schedule appended to these regulations.

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 8 
 
(2) Words and expressions not defined in these regulations, but defined in or under the Act or the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation ) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 
1996) or the regulations made thereunder or the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or any statutory 
modification or re-enactment thereof, shall have the same meanings as have been assigned to them 
by or under those enactments, unless the context requires otherwise. 
 
CHAPTER II 
INVESTOR PROTECTION AND EDUCATION FUND 
 
Establishment of Fund. 
 
3. (1) There shall be a Fund to be called the Investor Protection and Education Fund. 
 
(2) The Fund shall be deemed to have been established on 23rd day of July, 2007, by the order 
made by the Board under section 11 of the Act. 
 
Amounts to be credited to the Fund. 
 
4. 1[(1)] The following amounts shall be credited to the Fund:- 
(a) contribution as may be made by the Board to the Fund; 
(b) grants and donations given to the Fund by the Central Government, State Government or any 
other entity approved by the Board for this purpose; 
2[(c) proceeds in accordance with the sub-clause (ii) of clause(e) of sub-regulation (10) of 
regulation 17 and sub-regulation (3) of regulation 21 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011]; 
(d) security deposits, if any, held by stock exchanges in respect of public issues and rights 
issues, in the event of de-recognition of such stock exchanges; 
(e) amounts in the Investor Protection Fund and Investor Services Fund of a stock exchange,  in 
the event of de-recognition of such stock exchange; 
3[(f) amounts forfeited for non-fulfilment of obligations specified in regulation 15B of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 1998; 
(g) monies transferred in accordance with sub-regulation (9) of regulation 45 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; 
(h) amounts disgorged under section 11B of the Act or section 12A of the Securities Contracts  
(Regulation) Act, 1956 or section 19 of the Depositories Act, 1996;]  
4[(i)] interest or other income received out of any investments made from the Fund; 
                                                           
1 Existing regulation re -numbered as sub -regulation (1) by the SEB I (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) 
(Amendment) Regulations, w.e.f. 6-3-2017. 
2 Substituted by the SEBI (Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e f. 09 -01- 
2014. Prior to substitution, it read as under:  
"(c) proceeds in accordance with the sub-clause (ii) of clause(e) of sub-regulation (12) and the sub- regulation (13)of 
regulation 28 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 1997". 
3 Inserted ibid. 
4 Renumbered by the SEBI (Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulation s, 2014 w.e f. 09-01- 
2014.

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 8 
 
5[(j) monies transferred in accordance with the proviso to sub -regulation (3) of regulation 61A of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requir ements) 
Regulations, 2015;  
(k) monies transferred in accordance with clause (f) of sub-regulation (16) of regulation 18 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014;  
(l) monies transferred in accordance with clause (e) of sub -regulation (6) of regulation 18 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014;] 
6[(la) monies transferred in accordance with clause (c) of sub -regulation (3) of regulation 38B of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;] 
7[8[(m)]] such other amount as the Board may specify in the interest of investors. 
 
9[(2) For the purposes of sub -regulation (1) above, the amounts shall be credited  to the Fund 
through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other 
mode as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
 
Utilisation of Fund. 
 
5. (1) The Fund shall be utilised for the purpose of protection of investors  and promotion of 
investor education and awareness in accordance with these regulations. 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the object in sub-regulation (1), the Fund may be 
used for the following purposes, namely:- 
(a) educational activities including seminars, training, research and publications, aimed at 
investors; 
(b) awareness programmes including through media - print, electronic, aimed at investors; 
(c) funding investor education and awareness activities of Investors’ Associations 
recognized by the Board; 
(d) aiding investors’ associations recognized by the Board to undertake legal proceedings 
in the interest of investors in securities that are listed or proposed to be listed; 
(e) refund of the security deposits which are held by stock exchanges and transferred to the 
Fund consequent on de -recognition of the stock exchange as mentioned in clause (d) of  
regulation 4, in case the concerned companies apply to the Board and fulfill the conditions 
for release of the deposit; 
                                                           
5 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.10.2023. 
6 Inserted by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protect ion and Education Fund) ( Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 02.09.2025.  
7 Ibid. 
8 Substituted for “(j)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.10.2023. 
9 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 1-4-2023. 
Prior to substitution, it read as under: 
“(2) For the purposes of sub-regulation (1) above, the amounts shall be credited to the Fund through 
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or by way of a demand draft in favour of the Board payable in 
Mumbai.”

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 8 
 
(f) expenses on travel o f members of the Committee, who are not officials of the Board, 
and special invitees to the meetings of the Committee, in connection with the work of the  
Committee; 
(g) salary, allowances and other expenses of office of Ombudsman; 10[***] 
11[(ga) any reward under the guidelines as may be issued by the Board from time to time 
for the grant and payment of reward to the informants for providing original information 
to the Board to recover  amounts under section 28A of the Act or section 23JB of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation)  Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or section 19 -IB of the  
Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996); and] 
(h) such other purposes as may be specified by the Board. 
 
12[13[(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulations (1) and (2),- 
i. the amounts disgorged and credited to the Fund in accordance with clause (h) of sub 
regulation (1) of regulation 4 of these regulations and the interest accrued thereon shall, in 
cases where the Board deems fit to make restitution to eligible and identif iable investors 
who have suffered losses resulting from violation of securities laws or for rewarding 
informants who provide original information to the Board to recover amounts directed to 
be disgorged, be utilised only for the purposes of such restitution or reward;  
ii. the amounts credited to the Fund in accordance with clauses (j), (k) 14[,(l) and (la)] of 
sub regulation (1) of regulation 4, shall be utilised for refund to the entities transferring the 
said amounts, pursuant to their making payment to eligible and identifiable investors and 
making a claim to the Fund in the manner specified by the Board:  
 
Provided that monies remaining in the Fund after earmarking, -  
i. the amount for the process of restitution to eligible and identifiable investors credited 
to the Fund in accordance with clause (h) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4; and  
ii. the amount for refund to the entities transferring the said amounts credited to the Fund 
in accordance with clauses (j), (k) 15[,(l) and (la)] of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4;  
                                                           
10 The word “and” omitted by the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 28.02.2023.  
11 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 28.02.2023. 
12 Inserted by SEBI (Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e f. 09 -01- 2014. 
13 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.10.2023. Prior to substitution, the clause read as follows: 
“(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub -regulations (1) and (2), amounts disgorged and credited to the Fund in 
accordance with clause (h) of regulation 4 of these regulations and the interest accrued thereon shall, in cases where 
the Board deems fit to make restitution to eligible and identifiable investors who have suffered losses resulting from 
violation of securities laws or for rewarding informants who provide original information to the Bo ard to recover 
amounts directed to be disgorged, be utilised only for the purposes of such restitution or reward:  
 
Provided that monies left in the Fund after earmarking the amount for the process of restitution to eligible and 
identifiable investors may be utilised for the purposes of the Fund specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2): 
Provided further that no claim for restitution from the disgorged amounts in a specific case shall be admissible after 
a period of seven years from the date of invitation of claims for disgorgement in the said case by the Board.” 
14 Substituted for the words and symbol “and (l)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection 
and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 02.09.2025.   
15 Substituted for the words and symbol “and (l)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection 
and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 02.09.2025.

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 8 
 
 
may be utilised for the purposes of the Fund as specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2):  
 
Provided further that no claim for restitution from the disgorged amounts in a specific case 
shall be admissible after a period of seven years from the date of invitation of claims for 
disgorgement in the said case by the Board.] 
 
 
6. Conditions for Aid. 
 
The aid to investors’ associations, as referred to in clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of 
regulation 5, shall be given by the Board in accordance with the guidelines made by it and 
subject to the following conditions:- 
(a) that the aid shall not exceed seventy five per cent. of the total expenditure on legal 
proceedings; 
(b) such aid shall not be considered for more than one legal proceeding in a particular matter; 
(c) if more than one investors’ association applies for seeking legal aid, the investors’ 
association whose application is received first, shall be considered for such aid. 
 
 
CHAPTER III 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR THE FUND 
 
Constitution of the Committee. 
7. (1) The Board shall constitute an advisory committee for recommending investor education and 
protection activities that may be undertaken directly by the Board or through any other agency, for 
utilisation of the Fund for the purposes referred to in regulation 5. 
 
(2) The Committee shall consist of the following members, namely:- 
(a) the Executive Director of the Board in charge of Office of Investor Assistance and 
Education who shall be the convener of the Committee; 
(b) two other officials of the Board; 
(c) five other members who have expertise about the securities market and experience in 
matters of investor grievance redressal or investor education. 
 
(3) (a) The term of office of members referred in clause (c) of sub-regulation (2) of 
regulation 7 shall be two years, which may be extended for a further period of two years. 
(b) Any vacancy arising out of resignation, retirement or death of a member or for any other reason 
shall be filled by the Board for the remaining period of the term of such member.  
 
(4) The Board may dissolve and reconstitute the Committee if, at any time, the Board is of the 
opinion that the Committee is unable to discharge the functions and duties imposed on it by or 
under these regulations. 
 
Functions of the Committee.

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 8 
 
8. The Committee shall consider investor education and protection activities keeping in view the 
purposes mentioned in regulation 5 and the regulation 6 and submit its recommendations thereon 
to the Board. 
 
Meetings of the Committee.  
 
9. (1) Meetings of the Committee shall be convened at least once in three months by the convener 
or in his absence, by any member nominated by the convener, on his behalf.  
 
(2) Four members of the Committee shall constitute the quorum for the transaction of business at 
a meeting of the Committee.  
 
(3) Every member, who is directly or indirectly interested in any matter coming up for 
consideration at a meeting of the Committee, shall disclose the nature of his interest at such 
meeting and such disclosure shall be recorded in the proceedings of the meeting of the Committee 
and such member shall not take part in any deliberation of the Committee with respect to that 
matter. 
 
Expenses of the Committee.  
 
10. (1) The expenses including travel and other allowances of members of the Committee, who 
are officials of the Board, and invitees who are officials of the Board, shall be borne by the Board 
in accordance with their entitlements. 
(2) The expenses including travel and other allowances of members of the Committee, who are 
not officials of the Board, and invitees who are not officials of the Board, may be borne by the 
Fund. 
 
CHAPTER IV 
INVESTMENT, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT 
 
Investment, maintenance of accounts and audit of accounts.  
11. (1) The Board shall ensure maintenance of proper and s eparate accounts and other relevant 
records in relation to the Fund giving therein the details of all receipts to, and, expenditure from, 
the Fund and other relevant particulars in accordance with the SEBI (Form of Annual Statement 
of Accounts and Records) Rules, 1994 as far as such rules apply.  
 
(2) The accounts referred to in sub regulation (1) shall be prepared and audited before the expiry 
of six months from the end of each financial year.  
 
(3) The investment of the Fund may be in the manner of investments of other funds of the Board. 
 
(4) The accounts of the Fund may be audited in the manner of audit of other accounts of the Board. 
 
CHAPTER V 
MISCELLANEOUS 
Power to relax regulations.

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 8 
 
 
12. If in the opinion of the Board, strict enforcement of any regu lation needs to be relaxed to 
achieve the purpose of investor protection and education, the Board may relax the same. 
 
Delegation of powers.  
 
13. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by any 
member or officer of the Board to whom such powers are delegated by the Board by means of an 
order made under section 19 of the Act. 
 
Amendments to other Regulation.  
 
14. The regulation mentioned in the Schedule shall be amended in the manner and to the extent 
specified therein. 
 
 
SCHEDULE 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) 
Regulations, 2009 
[See regulation 14] 
 
Amendments to other regulation Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997. 
 
1. In regulation 28,  
 
(a) in sub -regulation (12) , for clause (e) , the following shall be substituted, namely: - “(e) the 
entire amount to the merchant banker, in the event of forfeiture for nonfulfillment of any of the 
obligations under the Regulations, for distribution in the  following manner, after deduction of 
expenses, if any, of the merchant banker and the registrars to the offer, -  
(i) one third of the amount to the target company;  
(ii) one third of the amount to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established by the Board;  
(iii) one third of the amount to be distributed pro-rata among the shareholders who have accepted 
the offer.”  
 
(b) in sub-regulation (13) , for the words “to the regional stock exchange of the target company, 
for the credit of the Investor Protection Fund or any other similar fund” appearing after the words 
“ proceeds thereof” the words “to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established by the 
Board” shall be substituted.

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 8 
 
Note: 
 
1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor  Protection and Education Fund) 
Regulations, 2009 was published in the Gazette of India on 19th May2009 vide notification 
no. LAD-NRO/GN/2009-10/05/163525. 
 
2. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) 
Regulations, 2009, was amended on: 
 
a) January 9, 2014 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection 
and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 vide notification No. 
LAD/NRO/GN/2013-14/38/49. 
 
b) March 6, 2017 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and 
Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017  vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/037. 
 
c) February 28, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection 
and Education  Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/126. 
 
d) October 20, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection 
and Education Fund) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/157. 
 
e) September 02, 202 5 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor 
Protection and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/256. 
 
*** 
 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations.]
