[Page 1]
Basel Committee 
on Banking Supervision 
Basel III: Finalising 
post-crisis reforms 
Dec
ember 2017 
This standard has been integrated into the consolidated Basel Framework: https://www.bis.org/basel_framework/

[Page 2]
This publication is available on the BIS website (www.bis.org). 
 
 
© Bank for International Settlements 2017. All rights reserved. Brief excerpts may be reproduced or 
translated provided the source is stated. 
 
 
 
ISBN 978-92-9259-022-2 (online)

[Page 3]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms iii 
 
 
Contents 
Introduction ......................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 
Standardised approach for credit risk ....................................................................................................................................... 3 
Internal ratings-based approach for credit risk ................................................................................................................... 53 
Minimum capital requirements for CVA risk ..................................................................................................................... 109 
Minimum capital requirements for operational risk....................................................................................................... 128 
Output floor .................................................................................................................................................................................... 137 
Leverage ratio ................................................................................................................................................................................ 140

[Page 4]


[Page 5]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 1 
 
 
Introduction 
1. This document sets out the Basel Committee’s finalisation of the Basel III framework. It 
complements the initial phase of Basel III reforms previously finalised by the Committee. The Basel III 
framework is a central element of the Basel Committee’s response to the global financial crisis. It addresses 
a number of shortcomings with the pre-crisis regulatory framework and provides a regulatory foundation 
for a resilient banking system that supports the real economy. 
2. A key objective of the revisions in this document is to reduce excessive variability of risk-weighted 
assets (RWAs).  At the peak of the global financial crises, a wide range of stakeholders – including 
academics, analysts and market participants – lost faith in banks’ reported risk-weighted capital ratios. The 
Committee’s own empirical analyses highlighted a worrying degree of variability in the calculation of RWAs 
by banks.  
3. A prudent and credible calculation of RWAs is an integral element of the risk -weighted capital 
framework. Banks’ reported risk-weighted capital ratios should be sufficiently transparent and comparable 
to permit stakeholders to assess their risk profile.  The Committee’s strategic review of the regulatory 
framework highlighted a number of fault lines with the existing architecture, particularly the extent to 
which it adequately balances simplicity, comparability and risk sensitivity.  
4. The revisions to the regulatory framework set out in this document will help restore credibility in 
the calculation of RWAs by: (i) enhancing the robustness and risk sensitivity of the standardised 
approaches for credit risk and operational risk, which will facilitate the comparability of banks’ capital 
ratios; (ii) constraining the use of internally -modelled approaches; and (iii) complementing the risk -
weighted capital ratio with a finalised leverage ratio and a revised and robust capital floor. An 
accompanying document summarises the main features of these revisions. 1  
5. In finalising these reforms, the Committee was guided by three overarching principles. First, the 
Committee is firmly committed to its mandate of strengthening the regulation, supervision and practices 
of banks worldwide, with the purpose of enhancing financial stability . A banking system that is resilient 
will be able to support the real economy and contribute positively to sustainable economic growth over 
the medium term. 
6. Second, the Committee actively seeks the views of stakeholders when developing standards. For 
these reforms, the Committee conducted an extensive consultation process with a wide range of 
stakeholders. The Committee thanks all stakeholders for their constructive contributions during this 
process. 
7. Third, the Committee conducted a comprehensive and rigorous assessment of the impact of 
these revisions on the banking system and the wider macro  economy. As a result of this assessment, the 
Committee focused on not significantly increasing overall capital requirements. 2 This is reflected in the 
design, calibrat ion and transitional arrangements discussed below. The Committee will continue to 
monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of these reforms in reducing excessive RWA variability.  
8. While the revised framework will continue to permit the use of internally -modelled approaches 
for certain risk categories (subject to supervisory approval), a jurisdiction which does not implement some 
or all of the internal- modelled approaches but instead only implements the standardised approaches is 
compliant with the Basel  framework. More generally, jurisdictions may elect to implement more 
 
1  The summary of the main features of the Basel III reforms is available at www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d424_hlsummary.pdf. 
2  The quantitative impact study is available at www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d426.htm.

[Page 6]
2 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
conservative requirements  and/or accelerated transitional arrangements , as the Basel framework 
constitutes minimum standards only.  
Implementation dates and transitional arrangements 
9. The Committee is introducing transitional arrangements to implement the new standards to 
ensure an orderly and timely implementation by jurisdictions and adjustment by banks. The main 
implementation dates are provided in the table below.  
Revision Implementation date 
Revisions to standardised approach for credit risk • 1 January 2022 
Revisions to IRB framework • 1 January 20223 
Revisions to CVA framework • 1 January 2022  
Revisions to operational risk framework • 1 January 2022  
Leverage ratio 
• Existing exposure definition: 1 January 20184 
• Revised exposure definition: 1 January 20225 
• G-SIB buffer: 1 January 2022 
Output floor 
• 1 January 2022: 50% 
• 1 January 2023: 55% 
• 1 January 2024: 60% 
• 1 January 2025: 65% 
• 1 January 2026: 70% 
• 1 January 2027: 72.5% 
 
 
3  On implementation of the revisions to the risk-weighted framework outlined in this standard and the revised output floor, the 
1.06 scaling factor that applies to the RWA amounts for credit risk under the IRB approach will no longer apply. More specifically, 
the references to the scaling factor in paragraphs 14 and 44 of the Basel II framework (June 2006), and paragraphs 49, 88, 90  
and 91 of the revised securitisation framework (July 2016) will no longer apply. 
4  Based on the January 2014 definition of the leverage ratio exposure measure. Jurisdictions are free to apply the revised 
definition of the exposure measure at an earlier date than 1 January 2022.  
5  Based on the revised leverage ratio exposure measure set out in this document.

[Page 7]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 3 
 
 
Standardised approach for credit risk 
Introduction 
1. The Committee permits banks to choose between two broad methodologies for calculating their 
risk-based capital requirements for credit risk. The first, the standardised approach, assigns standardised 
risk weights to exposures as described in paragraphs 4 to 97.  To determine  the risk weights in the 
standardised approach for certain exposure classes, in jurisdictions that allow the use of external ratings 
for regulatory purposes, banks may, as a starting point, use assessments by external  credit assessment 
institutions that are recognised as eligible for capital purposes by national supervisors, in accordance with 
paragraphs 98 to 116. Under the standardised approach, exposures should be risk-weighted net of specific 
provisions (including partial write-offs). 
2. The second risk-weighted capital treatment for measuring credit risk, the internal ratings-based 
(IRB) approach, allows banks to use their internal rating systems for credit risk, subject to the explicit 
approval of the bank’s supervisor. 
3. Securitisation exposures are addressed in the securitisation standard.1 Credit equivalent amounts 
of OTC derivatives, exchange traded derivatives and long -settlement transactions that expose a bank to 
counterparty credit risk 2  are to be calc ulated under the counterparty credit risk standards . 3  Equity 
investments in funds and exposures to central counterparties must be treated according to their own 
specific frameworks.4  
 
1  The securitisation standard is available at www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d374.pdf. 
2  Counterparty credit risk is defined as the risk that the counterparty to a transaction could default before the final settlement of 
the transaction’s cash flows. An economic loss would occur if the transactions or portfolio of transactions with the counterparty 
has a positive economic value at the time of default. Unlike a firm’s exposure to credit risk through a loan, where the exposure 
to credit risk is unilateral and only the lending bank faces the risk of loss, counterparty credit risk creates a bilateral risk of loss: 
the market value of the transaction can be positive or negative to either counterparty to the transaction. The market value i s 
uncertain and can vary over time with the movement of underlying market factors. 
3  The counterparty credit risk standards are set out in Annex 4 of the Basel II framework (June 2006), amended to reflect the 
changes set out in: (i) Basel III: A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems (June 2011), available 
at www.bis.org/publ/bcbs189.pdf; (ii) The standardised approach for measuring counterparty credit risk exposures (April 2014), 
available at www.bis.org/publ/bcbs279.pdf; and (iii) Capital requirements for bank exposures to central counterparties (April 
2014), available at www.bis.org/publ/bcbs282.pdf. 
4  Standards on capital requirements for banks’ equity investments in funds are available at www.bis.org/publ/bcbs266.pdf; and 
for capital requirements for bank exposures to central counterparties are set ou t in Section XI of the counterparty credit risk 
standards.

[Page 8]
4 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
A. Individual exposures 
Due diligence requirements 
4. Consistent with the Committee’s guidance on the assessment of credit risk 5 and paragraphs 733 
to 735 of the Basel II framework (June 2006), banks must perform due diligence to ensure that they have 
an adequate understanding, at origination and thereafter on a regular basis (at least annually), of the risk 
profile and characteristics of their counterparties. In cases where ratings are used, due diligence is 
necessary to assess the risk of the exposure for risk management purposes and whether the risk weight 
applied is appropriate and prudent.6 The sophistication of the due diligence should be appropriate to the 
size and complexity of banks’ activities. Banks must take reasonable and adequate steps to assess the 
operating and financial performance levels and trends through inte rnal credit analysis and/or other 
analytics outsourced to a third party, as appropriate for each counterparty. Banks must be able to access 
information about their counterparties on a regular basis to complete due diligence analyses.  
5. For exposures to entities belonging to consolidated groups, due diligence should, to the extent 
possible, be performed at the solo entity level to which there is a credit exposure. In evaluating the 
repayment capacity of the solo entity, banks are expected to take into acco unt the support of the group 
and the potential for it to be adversely impacted by problems in the group. 
6. Banks should have in place effective internal policies, processes, systems and controls to ensure 
that the appropriate risk weights are assigned to counterparties. Banks must be able to demonstrate to 
their supervisors that their due diligence analyses are appropriate. As part of their supervisory review, 
supervisors should ensure that banks have appropriately performed their due diligence analyses, and 
should take supervisory measures where these have not been done. 
1.  Exposures to sovereigns  
(Treatment unchanged from the Basel II framework (June 2006)) 
7.  Exposures to sovereigns and their central banks will be risk-weighted as follows: 
Risk weight table for sovereigns and central banks Table 1 
External rating AAA to AA– A+ to A– BBB+ to BBB– BB+ to B– Below B– Unrated 
Risk weight 0% 20% 50% 100% 150% 100% 
 
 
5  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Guidance on credit risk and accounting for expected credit losses , December 2015, 
available at www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d350.pdf. 
6  The due diligence requirements do not apply to the exposures set out in paragraphs 7 to 12.

[Page 9]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 5 
 
 
8. At national discretion, a lower risk weight may be applied to banks’ exposures to their sovereign 
(or central bank) of incorporation denominated in domestic currency and funded7 in that currency.8 Where 
this discretion is exercised, other national supervisors may also permit their banks to apply the same risk 
weight to domestic currency exposures to this sovereign (or central bank) funded in that currency.  
9. For the purpose of risk -weighting exposures to sovereigns, supervisors may recognise the 
country risk scores assigned by Export Credit Agencies (ECAs). To qualify, an ECA must publish its risk 
scores and subscribe to the OECD -agreed methodology. Banks may choose to use the risk scores 
published by individual ECAs that are recognised by their supervisor, or the consensus risk scores of ECAs 
participating in the “Arrangement on Officially Supported Export Credits”. 9  The OECD -agreed 
methodology establishes eight risk score categories associated with minimum export insurance premiums. 
These ECA risk scores will correspond to risk weight categories as detailed below. 
Risk weight table for sovereigns and central banks Table 2 
ECA risk scores 0 to 1 2 3 4 to 6 7 
Risk weight 0% 20% 50% 100% 150% 
 
10. Exposures to the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, the 
European Central Bank, the European Union, the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) and the European 
Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) may receive a 0% risk weight.  
2.  Exposures to non-central government public sector entities (PSEs) 
(Treatment unchanged from the Basel II framework (June 2006), only minor editorial changes have been 
made to remove reference to current options for banks.) 
11.  Exposures to domestic PSEs will be risk -weighted at national discretion, according to either of 
the following two options.  
Risk weight table for PSEs 
Option 1: Based on external rating of sovereign Table 3 
External rating of the sovereign AAA to AA– A+ to A– BBB+ to BBB– BB+ to B– Below B– Unrated 
Risk weight under Option 1 20% 50% 100% 100% 150% 100% 
 
 
7 This is to say that the bank would also have corresponding liabilities denominated in the domestic currency. 
8 This lower risk weight may be extended to the risk-weighting of collateral and guarantees under the CRM framework.  
9  The consensus country risk classification is available on the OECD’s website (www.oecd.org) in the Export Credit Arrangement 
webpage of the Trade Directorate.

[Page 10]
6 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
Risk weight table for PSEs 
Option 2: Based on external rating of PSE Table 4 
External rating of the PSE AAA to AA– A+ to A– BBB+ to BBB– BB+ to B– Below B– Unrated 
Risk weight under Option 2 20% 50% 50% 100% 150% 50% 
 
12.  Subject to national discretion, exposures to certain domestic PSEs 10 may also be treated as 
exposures to the sovereigns in whose jurisdictions the PSEs are established. Where this discretion is 
exercised, other national supervisors may allow their banks to risk -weight exposures to such PSEs in the 
same manner.  
3.  Exposures to multilateral development banks (MDBs) 
13.  For the purposes of calculating capital requirements, a Multilateral Development Bank (MDB) is 
an institution, created by a group of countries that provides financing and professional advice for 
economic and social development projects. MDBs have large sovereign memberships and may include 
both developed countries and/or developing countries. Each MDB has its own independent legal and 
operational status, but with a similar mandate and a considerable number of joint owners. 
14. A 0% risk weight will be applied to exposures to MDBs that fulfil to the Committee’s satisfaction 
the eligibility criteria provided below. 11 The Committee will continue to evaluate eligibility on a case -by-
case basis. The eligibility criteria for MDBs risk-weighted at 0% are:  
(i) very high-quality long-term issuer ratings, ie a majority of an MDB’s external ratings must be 
AAA;12  
 
10  The following examples outline how PSEs might be categorised when focusing on one specific feature, namely revenue-raising 
powers. However, there may be other ways of determining the different treatments applicable to different types of PSEs, for 
instance by focusing on the extent of guarantees provided by the central government: 
- Regional governments and local authorities could qualify for the same treatment as claims on their sovereign or central 
government if these governments and local authorities have specific revenue-raising powers and have specific institutional 
arrangements the effect of which is to reduce their risk of default. 
- Administrative bodies responsible to central governments, regional governments or to local authorities and other non -
commercial undertakings owned by the governments or loca l authorities may not warrant the same treatment as claims 
on their sovereign if the entities do not have revenue- raising powers or other arrangements as described above. If strict 
lending rules apply to these entities and a declaration of bankruptcy is not possible because of their special public status, 
it may be appropriate to treat these claims according to Option 1 or 2 for PSEs.  
- Commercial undertakings owned by central governments, regional governments or by local authorities may be treated as 
normal commercial enterprises. However, if these entities function as a corporate in competitive markets even though the 
state, a regional authority or a local authority is the major shareholder of these entities, supervisors should decide to 
consider them as corporates and therefore attach to them the applicable risk weights. 
11  MDBs currently eligible for a 0% risk weight are: the World Bank Group comprising the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (IBRD), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) 
and the International Development Association (IDA), the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the African Development Bank 
(AfDB), the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the Inter- American Development Bank (IADB), the 
European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Fund (EIF), the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB), the Caribbean 
Development Bank (CDB), the Islamic Development Bank (IDB), the Council of Europe Development Bank (CEDB ), the 
International Finance Facility for Immunization (IFFIm), and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB). 
12  MDBs that request to be added to the list of MDBs eligible for a 0% risk weight must comply with the AAA rating criterion at 
the time of the application. Once included in the list of eligible MDBs, the rating may be downgraded, but in no case lower 
than AA–. Otherwise, exposures to such MDBs will be subject to the treatment set out in paragraph 15.

[Page 11]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 7 
 
 
(ii) either the shareholder structure comprises a significant proportion of sovereigns with long-term 
issuer external ratings of AA – or better, or the majority of the MDB’s fund -raising is in the form 
of paid-in equity/capital and there is little or no leverage; 
(iii) strong shareholder support demonstrated by the amount of paid -in capital contributed by the 
shareholders; the amount of further capital the MDBs have the right to call, if required, to repay 
their liabilities; and continued capital contributions and new pledges from sovereign 
shareholders; 
(iv) adequate level of capital and liquidity (a case -by-case approach is necessary in order to assess 
whether each MDB’s capital and liquidity are adequate); and,  
(v) strict statutory lending requirements and conservative financial policies, which would include 
among other conditions a structured approval process, i nternal creditworthiness and risk 
concentration limits (per country, sector, and individual exposure and credit category), large 
exposures approval by the board or a committee of the board, fixed repayment schedules, 
effective monitoring of use of proceeds , status review process, and rigorous assessment of risk 
and provisioning to loan loss reserve. 
15.  For exposures to all other MDBs, banks incorporated in jurisdictions that allow the use of external 
ratings for regulatory purposes will assign to their MD B exposures the corresponding “base” risk weights 
determined by the external ratings according to Table 5. Banks incorporated in jurisdictions that do not 
allow external ratings for regulatory purposes will risk-weight such exposures at 50%. 
Risk weight table for MDB exposures Table 5 
External rating of counterparty AAA to AA– A+ to A– BBB+ to BBB– BB+ to B– Below B– Unrated 
“Base” risk weight 20% 30% 50% 100% 150% 50% 
4.  Exposures to banks 
16.  For the purposes of calculating capital requirements,  a bank exposure is defined as a claim 
(including loans and senior debt instruments, unless considered as subordinated debt for the purposes of 
paragraph 53) on any financial institution that is licensed to take deposits from the public and is subject 
to a ppropriate prudential standards and level of supervision . 13  The treatment associated with 
subordinated bank debt and equities is addressed in paragraphs 49 to 53. 
Risk weight determination 
17. Bank exposures will be risk-weighted based on the following hierarchy:14  
 
13  For internationally active banks, appropriate prudential standards (eg capital and liquidity requirements) and level of 
supervision should be in accordance with the Basel framework. For domestic banks, appropriate prudential standards are 
determined by the national supervisors but should include at least a minimum regulatory capital requirement. 
14  With the exception of exposures giving rise to Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 items, national supervisors  
may allow banks belonging to the same institutional protection scheme (such as mutual, cooperatives or savings institutions)

[Page 12]
8 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(a) External Credit Risk Assessment Approach (ECRA): This approach is for banks incorporated in 
jurisdictions that allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes. It applies to all their 
exposures to banks that are rated. Banks will apply paragraphs 98 to 116 to determine which 
rating can be used and for which exposures.  
(b) Standardised Credit Risk Assessment Approach  (SCRA): This approach is for all exposures of 
banks incorporated in jurisdictions that do not allow the use of external ratings for regulatory 
purposes. For exposures to banks that are unrated, this approach also applies to banks 
incorporated in jurisdictions that allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes.  
(a) External Credit Risk Assessment Approach (ECRA) 
18. Banks incorporated in jurisdictions that allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes 
will assign to their rated bank exposures 15 the corresponding “base” risk weights determined by the 
external ratings according to Table 6.  Such ratings must not incorporate assumptions of implicit 
government support, unless the rating refers to a public bank owned by its government. 16  Banks 
incorporated in jurisdictions that allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes must only apply 
SCRA for their unrated bank exposures, in accordance with paragraph 21. 
Risk weight table for bank exposures 
External Credit Risk Assessment Approach Table 6 
External rating of counterparty AAA to AA– A+ to A– BBB+ to BBB– BB+ to B– Below B– 
“Base” risk weight 20% 30% 50% 100% 150% 
Risk weight for short-term exposures 20% 20% 20% 50% 150% 
 
19. Exposures to banks with an original maturity of three months or less, as well as exposures to 
banks that arise from the movement of goods across national borders with an original maturity of six 
months or less17 can be assigned a risk weight that correspond to the risk weights for short term exposures 
in Table 6. 
 
in their jurisdictions to apply a lower risk weight than that indicated by the ECRA and SCRA to their intra-group or in-network 
exposures provided that both counterparties to the exposures are members of  the same effective institutional protection 
scheme that is a contractual or statutory arrangement set up to protect those institutions and seeks to ensure their liquidit y 
and solvency to avoid bankruptcy. 
15  An exposure is rated from the perspective of a bank if the exposure is rated by a recognised “eligible credit assessment 
institution” (ECAI) which has been nominated by the bank (ie the bank has informed its supervisor of its intention to use the  
ratings of such ECAI for regulatory purposes in a consistent manner (paragraphs 103). In other words, if an external rating exists 
but the credit rating agency is not a recognised ECAI by the national supervisor, or the rating has been issued by an ECAI which 
has not been nominated by the bank, the exposure would be considered as being unrated from the perspective of the bank. 
16  Implicit government support refers to the notion that the government would act to prevent bank creditors from incurring losses 
in the event of a bank default or bank distress. National supervisors may continue to allow banks to use external ratings which 
incorporate assumptions of implicit government support for up to a period of five years, from the date of implementation of 
this standard, when assigning the “base” risk weights in Table 6 to their bank exposures. 
17  This may include on- balance sheet exposures such as loans and off -balance sheet exposures such as self -liquidating trade-
related contingent items.

[Page 13]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 9 
 
 
20.  Banks must perform due diligence to ensure that the external ratings appropriately and 
conservatively reflect the creditworthiness of the bank counterparties. If the due diligence analysis reflects 
higher risk characteristics than that implied by the external rating bucket of the exposure (ie AAA to AA –; 
A+ to A– etc), the bank must assign a risk weight at least one bucket higher than the “base” risk weight 
determined by the external rating. Due diligence analysis must never result in the application of a lower 
risk weight than that determined by the external rating. 
(b) Standardised Credit Risk Assessment Approach (SCRA) 
21. Banks incorporated in jurisdictions that do not allow the use of external ratings for regulatory 
purposes will apply the SCRA to all their bank exposures. The SCRA also applies to unrated bank exposures 
for banks incorporated in jurisdictions that allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes. The 
SCRA requires bank to classify bank exposures into one of three risk -weight buckets (ie Grades A, B and 
C) and assign the corresponding risk weights  in Table 7. For the purposes of the SCRA only, “published 
minimum regulatory requirements” in paragraphs 22 to 29 excludes liquidity standards.  
Risk weight table for bank exposures 
Standardised Credit Risk Assessment Approach Table 7 
Credit risk assessment of counterparty Grade A Grade B Grade C 
“Base” risk weight 40%18 75% 150% 
Risk weight for short-term exposures 20% 50% 150% 
Grade A 
22. Grade A refers to exposures to banks, where the counterparty bank has adequate capacity to 
meet their financial commitments (including repayments of principal and interest) in a timely manner, for 
the projected life of the assets or exposures and irrespective of the economic cycles and business 
conditions. 
23. A counterparty bank classified into Grade A must meet or  exceed the published minimum 
regulatory requirements and buffers established by its national supervisor as implemented in the 
jurisdiction where it is incorporated, except for bank-specific minimum regulatory requirements or buffers 
that may be imposed through supervisory actions (eg via Pillar 2) and not made public. If such minimum 
regulatory requirements and buffers (other than bank -specific minimum requirements or buffers) are not 
publicly disclosed or otherwise made available by the counterparty bank then the counterparty bank must 
be assessed as Grade B or lower.  
24. If as part of its due diligence, a bank assesses that a counterparty bank does not meet the 
definition of Grade A in paragraphs 22 and 23, exposures to the counterparty bank must be clas sified as 
Grade B or Grade C.  
Grade B 
25. Grade B refers to exposures to banks, where the counterparty bank is subject to substantial credit 
risk, such as repayment capacities that are dependent on stable or favourable economic or business 
conditions.  
26. A counterparty bank classified into Grade B must meet or exceed the published minimum 
regulatory requirements (excluding buffers) established by its national supervisor as implemented in the 
 
18  Under the Standardised Credit Risk Assessment Approach, exposures to banks without an external credit rating may receive a 
risk weight of 30%, provided that the counterparty bank has a CET1 ratio which meets or exceeds 14% and a Tier 1 leverage 
ratio which meets or exceeds 5%. The counterparty bank must also satisfy all the requirements for Grade A classification.

[Page 14]
10 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
jurisdiction where it is incorporated, except for bank-specific minimum regulatory requirements that may 
be imposed through supervisory actions (eg via Pillar 2) and not made public. If such minimum regulatory 
requirements are not publicly disclosed or otherwise made available by the counterparty bank then the 
counterparty bank must be assessed as Grade C. 
27. Banks will classify all exposures that do not meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs 22 and 
23 into Grade B, unless the exposure falls within Grade C under paragraphs 28 and 29. 
Grade C 
28. Grade C refers to higher credit risk exposures to banks, where the counterparty bank has material 
default risks and limited margins of safety. For these counterparties, adverse business, financial, or 
economic conditions are very likely to lead, or have led, to an inability to meet their financial commitments. 
29. At a minimum, if any of the following triggers is breached, a bank must classify the exposure into 
Grade C:  
• The counterparty bank does not meet the criteria for being classifed as Grade B with respect to 
its published minimum regulatory requirements, as set out in paragraphs 25 and 26; or 
• Where audited financial statements are required, the external auditor has issued an adverse audit 
opinion or has expressed substantial doubt about the counterparty bank’s ability to continue as 
a going concern in its financial statements or audited reports within the previous 12 months.  
Even if these triggers are not breached, a bank may assess that the counterparty bank meets the 
definition in paragraph 28. In that case, the  exposure to such counterparty bank must be classified into 
Grade C.  
30. Exposures to banks with an original maturity of three months or less, as well as exposures to 
banks that arise from the movement of goods across national borders with an original mat urity of six 
months or less,19 can be assigned a risk weight that correspond to the risk weights for short term exposures 
in Table 7. 
31. To reflect transfer and convertibility risk under the SCRA, a risk -weight floor based on the risk 
weight applicable to exposures to the sovereign of the country where the bank counterparty is 
incorporated will be applied to the risk weight assigned to bank exposures. The sovereign floor applies 
when the exposure is not in the local currency of the jurisdiction of incorpora tion of the debtor bank and 
for a borrowing booked in a branch of the debtor bank in a foreign jurisdiction, when the exposure is not 
in the local currency of the jurisdiction in which the branch operates. The sovereign floor will not apply to 
short-term (ie with a maturity below one year) self -liquidating, trade-related contingent items that arise 
from the movement of goods.20 
5.  Exposures to covered bonds 
32.  Covered bonds are bonds issued by a bank or mortgage institution that are subject by law to 
special public supervision designed to protect bond holders. Proceeds deriving from the issue of these 
bonds must be invested in conformity with the law in assets which, during the whole period of the validity 
of the bonds, are capable of covering claims attached to the bonds and which, in the event of the failure 
of the issuer, would be used on a priority basis for the reimbursement of the principal and payment of the 
accrued interest. 
 
19  This may include on- balance sheet exposures such as loans and off -balance sheet exposures such as self -liquidating trade-
related contingent items. 
20  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Treatment of trade finance under the Basel capital framework, October 2011, available 
at http://www.bis.org/publ/bcbs205.pdf.

[Page 15]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 11 
 
 
Eligible assets 
33. In order to be eligible for the risk weights set out in  paragraph 35, the underlying assets (the 
cover pool) of covered bonds as defined in paragraph 32 shall meet the requirements set out in paragraph 
34 and shall include any of the following: 
• claims on, or guaranteed by, sovereigns, their central banks, publ ic sector entities or multilateral 
development banks;   
• claims secured by residential real estate that meet the criteria set out in paragraph 60 and with a 
loan-to-value ratio of 80% or lower; 
• claims secured by commercial real estate that meets the criteria set out in paragraph 60 and with 
a loan-to-value ratio of 60% or lower; or 
• claims on, or guaranteed by banks that qualify for a 30% or lower risk weight. However, such 
assets cannot exceed 15% of covered bond issuances. 
The nominal value of the pool of assets assigned to the covered bond instrument(s) by its issuer 
should exceed its nominal outstanding value by at least 10%. The value of the pool of assets for this 
purpose does not need to be that required by the legislative framework. However, if the leg islative 
framework does not stipulate a requirement of at least 10%, the issuing bank needs to publicly disclose 
on a regular basis that their cover pool meets the 10% requirement in practice. In addition to the primary 
assets listed in this paragraph, add itional collateral may include substitution assets (cash or short term 
liquid and secure assets held in substitution of the primary assets to top up the cover pool for management 
purposes) and derivatives entered into for the purposes of hedging the risks arising in the covered bond 
program.  
The conditions set out in this paragraph must be satisfied at the inception of the covered bond 
and throughout its remaining maturity. 
Disclosure requirements 
34. Exposures in the form of covered bonds are eligible for  the treatment set out in paragraph 35, 
provided that the bank investing in the covered bonds can demonstrate to its national supervisors that:  
(a) it receives portfolio information at least on:  (i) the value of the cover pool and outstanding 
covered bonds;  (ii) the geographical distribution and type of cover assets, loan size, interest rate 
and currency risks; (iii) the maturity structure of cover assets and covered bonds; and  (iv) the 
percentage of loans more than 90 days past due; 
(b) the issuer makes  the information referred to in point (a) available to the bank at least semi -
annually. 
35. Covered bonds that meet the criteria set out in the paragraphs 33 and 34 shall be risk -weighted 
based on the issue-specific rating or the issuer’s risk weight according to the rules outlined in paragraphs 
98 to 116. For covered bonds  with issue-specific ratings,21 the risk weight shall be determined according 
to Table 8. For unrated covered bonds, the risk weight would be inferred from the issuer’s ECRA or SCRA 
risk weight according to Table 9. 
 
21  An exposure is rated from the perspective of a bank if the exposure is rated by a recognised “eligible credit assessment 
institution” (ECAI) which has been nominated by the bank (ie the bank has informed its supervisor of its intention to use the 
ratings of such ECAI for regulatory purposes in a consistent manner (see paragraphs 103). In other words, if an external rating 
exists but the credit rating agency is not a recognised ECAI by the national supervisor, or the rating has been issued by an ECAI 
which has not been nominated by the bank, the exposure would be considered as being unrated from the perspective of the 
bank.

[Page 16]
12 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
Risk weight table for rated covered bond exposures Table 8 
Issue-specific rating of the covered bond AAA to AA– A+ to A– BBB+ to BBB– BB+ to B– Below B– 
“Base” risk weight 10% 20% 20% 50% 100% 
 
Risk weight table for unrated covered bond exposures Table 9 
Risk weight of the issuing bank 20% 30% 40% 50% 75% 100% 150% 
“Base” risk weight 10% 15% 20% 25% 35% 50% 100% 
 
36.  Banks must perform due diligence to ensure that the external ratings appropriately and 
conservatively reflect the creditworthiness of the covered bond and the issuing bank. If the due diligence 
analysis reflects higher risk characteristics than that implied by the external rating bucket of the exposure 
(ie AAA to AA –; A+ to A – etc), the bank must assign a risk weight at least one bucket higher than the 
“base” risk weight determined by the external rating. Due diligence analysis must never result in the 
application of a lower risk weight than that determined by the external rating. 
6.  Exposures to securities firms and other financial institutions 
37.  Exposures to securities firms and other financial institutions will be treated as exposures to banks 
provided that these firms are subject to prudential standards and a level of supervision equivalent to those 
applied to banks (including capital and liquidity requirements). National supervisors should determine 
whether the regulatory and supervisory framework governing securities firms and other financial 
institutions in their own jurisdictions is equivalent to that which is applied to banks in their own 
jurisdictions. Where the regulatory and supervisory framework governing securities firms and other 
financial institutions is determined to be equivalent to that applied to banks in a jurisdiction, other national 
supervisors may allow their banks to risk weight such exposures to securities firms and other financial 
institutions as exposures to banks. Exposures to all other securities firms and financial institutions will be 
treated as exposures to corporates. 
7. Exposures to corporates 
38.  For the purposes of calculating capital requirements, exposures to corporates include exposures 
(loans, bonds, receivables, etc) to incorporated entities, associations, partnerships, proprietorships, trusts, 
funds and other entities with similar characteristics, except those which qualify for one of the other 
exposure classes. The treatment associated with subordinated debt and equities of these counterparties 
is addressed in paragraphs 49 to 53. The corporate exposure class includes exposures to insurance 
companies and other financial corporates that do not meet the definitions of exposures to banks, or 
securities firms and other financial institutions, as determined in paragraphs 16 and 37 respectively. The 
corporate exposure cla ss does not include exposures to individuals. The corporate exposure class 
differentiates between the following subcategories: 
(i) General corporate exposures; 
(ii) Specialised lending exposures, as defined in paragraph 44.

[Page 17]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 13 
 
 
7.1 General corporate exposures 
Risk weight determination 
39. For corporate exposures of banks incorporated in jurisdictions that allow the use of external 
ratings for regulatory purposes, banks will assign “base” risk weights according to Table 10.22 Banks must 
perform due diligence to e nsure that the external ratings appropriately and conservatively reflect the 
creditworthiness of the counterparties. Banks which have assigned risk weights to their rated bank 
exposures based on paragraph 18 must assign risk weights for all their corporate exposures according to 
Table 10. If the due diligence analysis reflects higher risk characteristics than that implied by the external 
rating bucket of the exposure (ie AAA to AA –; A+ to A– etc), the bank must assign a risk weight at least 
one bucket higher than the “base” risk weight determined by the external rating. Due diligence analysis 
must never result in the application of a lower risk weight than that determined by the external rating.  
40. Unrated corporate exposures of banks incorporated in jurisdictions that allow the use of external 
ratings for regulatory purposes will receive a 100% risk weight, with the exception of unrated exposures 
to corporate small and medium entities (SMEs), as described in paragraph 43.  
Risk weight table for corporate exposures 
Jurisdictions that use external ratings for regulatory purposes Table 10 
External rating of counterparty AAA to AA– A+ to A– BBB+ to BBB– BB+ to BB– Below BB– Unrated 
“Base” risk weight 20% 50%  75% 100% 150% 100% 
 
41. For corporate exposures of banks incorporated in jurisdictions that do not allow the use of 
external ratings for regulatory purposes, banks will assign a 100% risk weight to all corporate exposures, 
with the exception of: 
• exposures to corporates identified as “investment grade” in paragraph 42; and 
• exposures to corporate SMEs in paragraph 43.  
Banks must apply the treatment set out in this paragraph to their corporate exposures if they 
have assigned risk weights to their rated bank exposures based on paragraph 21.  
42. Banks in jurisdictions that do not allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes  may 
assign a 65% risk weight to exposures to “investment grade” corporates. An “investment grade” corporate 
is a corporate entity that has adequate capacity to meet its financial commitments in a timely manner and 
its ability to do so is assessed to be robust against adverse changes in the economic cycle and business 
conditions. When making this determination, the bank should assess the corporate entity against the 
investment grade definition taking into account the complexity of its business model, performance against 
industry and peers, and risks posed by the entity’s operating environment. Moreover, the corporate entity 
(or its parent company) must have securities outstanding on a recognised securities exchange. 
43. For unrated exposures to corporate SMEs  (defined as corporate exposures where the reported 
annual sales for the consolidated group of which the corporate counterparty is a part is less than or equal 
to €50 million for the most recent financial year), an 85% risk weight will be applied. Exposures to SMEs 
that meet the criteria in paragraph 55 will be treated as regulatory retail SME exposures and risk weighted 
at 75%. 
 
22  An exposure is rated from the pe rspective of a bank if the exposure is rated by a recognised “eligible credit assessment 
institution” (ECAI) which has been nominated by the bank (ie the bank has informed its supervisor of its intention to use the  
ratings of such ECAI for regulatory purposes in a consistent manner (paragraphs 103). In other words, if an external rating exists 
but the credit rating agency is not a recognised ECAI by the national supervisor, or the rating has been issued by an ECAI which 
has not been nominated by the bank, the exposure would be considered as being unrated from the perspective of the bank.

[Page 18]
14 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
7.2 Specialised lending 
44.  A corporate exposure will be treated as a specialised lending exposure if such lending possesses 
some or all of the following characteristics, either in legal form or economic substance:  
• The exposure is not related to real estate and is within the definitions of object financ e, project 
finance or commodities finance under paragraph 45. If the activity is related to real estate, the 
treatment would be determined in accordance with paragraphs 59 to 75; 
• The exposure is typically to an entity (often a special purpose vehicle (SPV)) that was created 
specifically to finance and/or operate physical assets; 
• The borrowing entity has few or no other material assets or activities, and therefore little or no 
independent capacity to repay the obligation, apart from the income that it receiv es from the 
asset(s) being financed . T he primary source of repayment of the obligation is the income 
generated by the asset(s), rather than the independent capacity of the borrowing entity; and 
• The terms of the obligation give the lender a substantial degree of control over the asset(s) and 
the income that it generates. 
45.  Exposures described in paragraph 44 will be classified in one of the following three subcategories 
of specialised lending: 
(i) Project finance refers to the method of funding in which t he lender looks primarily to the 
revenues generated by a single project, both as the source of repayment and as security for the 
loan. This type of financing is usually for large, complex and expensive installations such as power 
plants, chemical processing plants, mines, transportation infrastructure, environment, media, and 
telecoms. Project finance may take the form of financing the construction of a new capital 
installation, or refinancing of an existing installation, with or without improvements.  
(ii) Object finance refers to the method of funding the acquisition of equipment (eg ships, aircraft, 
satellites, railcars, and fleets) where the repayment of the loan is dependent on the cash flows 
generated by the specific assets that have been financed and pledged or assigned to the lender. 
(iii) Commodities finance refers to short-term lending to finance reserves, inventories, or receivables 
of exchange-traded commodities (eg crude oil, metals, or crops), where the loan will be repaid 
from the proceeds of the sale of the commodity and the borrower has no independent capacity 
to repay the loan. 
46. Banks incorporated in jurisdictions that allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes 
will assign to their specialised lending exposures the risk weights determined by the issue-specific external 
ratings, if these are available, according to Table 10. Issuer ratings must not be used (ie paragraph 107 
does not apply in the case of specialised lending exposures).  
47.  For specialised lending exposures for which an issue-specific external rating is not available, and 
for all specialised lending exposur es of banks  incorporated in jurisdictions that do not allow the use of 
external ratings for regulatory purposes, the following risk weights will apply:  
• Object and commodities finance exposures will be risk-weighted at 100%;  
• Project finance exposures will be risk -weighted at 130% during the pre -operational phase and 
100% during the operational phase. Project finance exposures in the operational phase which are 
deemed to be high quality, as described in paragraph 48, will be risk weighted at 80%. For this 
purpose, o perational phase is defined as the phase in which the entity that was specifically 
created to finance the project has (i) a positive net cash flow that is sufficient to cover any 
remaining contractual obligation, and (ii) declining long term debt. 
48.  A high quality project finance exposure refers to an exposure to a project finance entity that is 
able to meet its financial commitments in a timely manner and its ability to do so is assessed to be robust

[Page 19]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 15 
 
 
against adverse changes in the economic cycle and business conditions. The following conditions must 
also be met: 
• The project finance entity is restricted from acting to the detriment of the creditors (eg by not 
being able to issue additional debt without the consent of existing creditors); 
• The project finance entity has sufficient reserve funds or other financial arrangements to cover 
the contingency funding and working capital requirements of the project; 
• The revenues are availability -based23 or subject to a rate -of-return regulation or take -or-pay 
contract; 
• The project finance entity’s revenue depends on one main counterparty and this main 
counterparty shall be a central government, PSE or a corporate entity with a risk weight of 80% 
or lower; 
• The contractual provisions governing the exposure to the project finance entity provide for a high 
degree of protection for creditors in case of a default of the project finance entity;  
• The main counterparty or other counterparties which similarly comply with the eligibility criter ia 
for the main counterparty will protect the creditors from the losses resulting from a termination 
of the project; 
• All assets and contracts necessary to operate the project have been pledged to the creditors to 
the extent permitted by applicable law; and 
• Creditors may assume control of the project finance entity in case of its default.  
8.  Subordinated debt, equity and other capital instruments  
49.  The treatment described in paragraphs 50 to 53 applies to subordinated debt, equity and other 
regulatory capital instruments issued by either corporates or banks, provided that such instruments are 
not deducted from regulatory capital or risk -weighted at 250% according to paragraphs 87 to 90 of the 
Basel III framework (June 2011). Equity exposures are defined on the basis of the economic substance of 
the instrument. They include both direct and indirect ownership interests,24 whether voting or non-voting, 
in the assets and income of a commercial enterprise or of a financial institution that is not consolidated or 
deducted. An instrument is considered to be an equity exposure if it meets all of the following 
requirements:  
• It is irredeemable in the sense that the return of invested funds can be achieved only by the sale 
of the investment or sale of the rights to the investment or by the liquidation of the issuer;  
• It does not embody an obligation on the part of the issuer; and  
• It conveys a residual claim on the assets or income of the issuer. 
 Additionally any of the following instruments must be categorised as an equity exposure:  
 
23   Availability-based revenues mean that once construction is completed, the project finance entity is entitled to payments from 
its contractual counterparties (eg the government), as long as contract conditions are fulfilled. Availability payments are sized 
to cover operating and maintenance costs, debt service costs and equity returns as the project finance entity operates the 
project. Availability payments are not subject to swings in demand, such as traffic levels, and are adjusted typically only for lack 
of performance or lack of availability of the asset to the public. 
24  Indirect equity interests include holdings of derivative instruments tied to equity interests, and holdings in corporations, 
partnerships, limited liability companies or other types of enterprises that issue ownership interests and are engaged principally 
in the business of investing in equity instruments.

[Page 20]
16 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• An instrument with the same structure as those permitted as Tier 1 capital for banking 
organisations.  
• An instrument that embodies an obligation on the part of the issuer and meets any of the 
following conditions: 
1) The issuer may defer indefinitely the settlement of the obligation; 
2) The obligation requires (or permits at the issuer’s discretion) settlement by issuance of 
a fixed number of the issuer’s equity shares;  
3) The obligation requires (or permits at the issuer’s discretion) settlement by issuance of 
a variable number of the issuer’s equity shares and (ceteris paribus) any change in the 
value of the obligation is attributable to, comparable to, and in the same direction as, 
the change in the value of a fixed number of the issuer’s equity shares; 25 or,  
4) The holder has the option to require that the obligation be settled in equity shares, 
unless either (i) in the case of a traded instrument, the supervisor is content that the 
bank has demonstrated that the instrument trades more like the debt of the issuer than 
like its equity, or (ii) in the case of non -traded instruments, the supervisor is content 
that t he bank has demonstrated that the instrument should be treated as a debt 
position. In cases (i) and (ii), the bank may decompose the risks for regulatory purposes, 
with the consent of the supervisor.  
Debt obligations and other securities, partnerships, derivatives or other vehicles structured with 
the intent of conveying the economic substance of equity ownership are considered an equity holding. 26 
This includes liabilities from which the return is linked to that of equities.27 Conversely, equity investments 
that are structured with the intent of conveying the economic substance of debt holdings or securitisation 
exposures would not be considered an equity holding. 28 
 
25 For certain obligations that require or perm it settlement by issuance of a variable number of the issuer’s equity shares, the 
change in the monetary value of the obligation is equal to the change in the fair value of a fixed number of equity shares 
multiplied by a specified factor. Those obligations meet the conditions of item 3 if both the factor and the referenced number 
of shares are fixed. For example, an issuer may be required to settle an obligation by issuing shares with a value equal to three 
times the appreciation in the fair value of 1,000 equity shares. That obligation is considered to be the same as an obligation 
that requires settlement by issuance of shares equal to the appreciation in the fair value of 3,000 equity shares. 
26  Equities that are recorded as a loan but arise from a debt/equity swap made as part of the orderly realisation or restructuring 
of the debt are included in the definition of equity holdings. However, these instruments may not attract a lower capital charge 
than would apply if the holdings remained in the debt portfolio. 
27  Supervisors may decide not to require that such liabilities be included where they are directly hedged by an equity holding, 
such that the net position does not involve material risk. 
28  The national supervisor has the discretion to re-characterise debt holdings as equites for regulatory purposes and to otherwise 
ensure the proper treatment of holdings under Pillar 2.

[Page 21]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 17 
 
 
50.  Banks will assign a risk weight of 400% to speculative unlisted equity exposures described in 
paragraph 51 and a risk weight of 250% to all other equity holdings, with the exception of those equity 
holdings referred to in paragraph 52.29 
51. Speculative unlisted equity exposures are defined as equity investments in unlisted companies 
that are invested for short -term resale purposes or are considered venture capital or similar investments 
which are subject to price volatility and are acquired in anticipation of significant future capital gains. 30 
52. National supervisors may allow banks to  assign a risk weight of 100% to equity holdings made 
pursuant to national legislated programmes that provide significant subsidies for the investment to the 
bank and involve government oversight and restrictions on the equity investments. Such treatment c an 
only be accorded to equity holdings up to an aggregate of 10% of the bank’s combined Tier 1 and Tier 2 
capital. Example of restrictions are limitations on the size and types of businesses in which the bank is 
investing, allowable amounts of ownership interests, geographical location and other pertinent factors 
that limit the potential risk of the investment to the bank. 
53.  Banks will assign a risk weight of 150% to subordinated debt and capital instruments other than 
equities. Any liabilities that meet the definition of “other TLAC liabilities” in paragraphs 66b and 66c of the 
amended version of Basel III set out in the TLAC holdings standard (October 2016) and that are not 
deducted from regulatory capital are considered to be subordinated debt for the purposes of this 
paragraph. 
9. Retail exposures 
54.  Retail exposures are exposures to an individual person or persons, or to regulatory retail SMEs.31 
Retail exposures secured by real estate will be treated according to paragraphs 59 to 75. All other retai l 
exposures will be treated as outlined in paragraphs 55 to 58.  
55. Retail exposures that meet all of the criteria listed below will be classified as “regulatory retail” 
exposures and risk -weighted at 75%. Defaulted retail exposures are to be excluded from the overall 
regulatory retail portfolio when assessing the granularity criterion.  
• Product criterion: the exposure takes the form of any of the following: revolving credits and lines 
of credit (including credit cards, charge cards and overdrafts), personal term loans and leases (eg 
instalment loans, auto loans and leases, student and educational loans, personal finance) and 
 
29  The risk weight treatment described in paragraph 50, excluding equity holdings referred to in paragraph 52, will be subject to 
a five-year linear phase- in arrangement from the date of implementation of this standard. For speculative unlisted equity 
exposures, the applicable risk weight will start at 100% and increase by 60 percentage points at the end of each year until the 
end of Year 5. For all other equity holdings, the applicable risk weight will start at 100% and increase by 30 percentage points 
at the end of each year until the end of Year 5. 
30  For example, investments in unlisted equities of corporate clients with which the bank has or intends to establish a long-term 
business relationship and debt-equity swaps for corporate restructuring purposes would be excluded. 
31  Regulatory retail SMEs are SMEs, defined in accordance to paragraph 43, that meet the requirements set out in paragraph 55. 
In some jurisdictions (eg emerging economies), national supervisors might deem it appropriate to define SMEs in a more 
conservative manner (ie with a lower level of sales).

[Page 22]
18 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
small business facilities and commitments. Mortgage loans, derivatives and other securities (such 
as bonds and equities), whether listed or not, are specifically excluded from this category.  
• Low value of individual exposures: the maximum aggregated exposure to one counterparty 
cannot exceed an absolute threshold of €1 million. 
• Granularity criterion: no aggregated exposure to one counte rparty32 can exceed 0.2% 33 of the 
overall regulatory retail portfolio, unless national supervisors have determined another method 
to ensure satisfactory diversification of the regulatory retail portfolio. 
56. “Regulatory retail” exposures which meet the criteria in paragraph 55 that arise from obligors 
who qualify as transactors will be risk -weighted at 45%. Transactors are obligors in relation to facilities 
such as credit cards and charge cards where the balan ce has been repaid in full at each scheduled 
repayment date for the previous 12 months. Obligors in relation to overdraft facilities would also be 
considered as transactors if there has been no drawdowns over the previous 12 months.  
57. “Other retail”: exposures to an individual person or persons that do not meet all of the criteria in 
paragraph 55 will be risk-weighted at 100%. 
58. Exposures to SMEs that do not meet all of the criteria in paragraph 55 will be treated as corporate 
SMEs exposures under paragraph 43, unless secured by real estate. 
10. Real estate exposure class 
59.  The risk weights in Tables 11, 12, 13 and 14 and the approaches set out in paragraphs 65 and 71 
will apply to jurisdictions where structural factors result in sustainably low credit losses associated with the 
exposures to the real estate market. National supervisors should evaluate whether the risk weights in the 
corresponding risk weight tables are too low for these types of exposures in their jurisdictions based on 
default experience and other factors such as market price stability. Supervisors may require banks in their 
jurisdictions to increase these risk weights as appropriate.  
60. To apply the risk-weights in Tables 11, 12, 13 and 14 and the approaches set out in paragraphs 
65 and 71, the loan must meet the following requirements: 
• Finished property: the property securing the exposure must be fully completed. This requirement 
does not apply to forest and agricultural land. Subject to national discretion, supervisors may 
apply the risk-weight treatment described in paragraphs 64 and 65 for loans to individuals that 
are secured by residential property under construction or land upon which residential property 
would be constructed, provided that: (i) the property is a one -to-four family residential housing 
unit that will be the primary residence of the borrower and the lending to the individual is not, in 
 
32  Aggregated exposure means gross amount (ie not taking any credit risk mitigation into account) of all forms of retail exposures, 
excluding residential real estate exposures. In case of off -balance sheet claims, the gross amount would be calculated after 
applying credit conversion factors. In addition, “to one counterparty” means one or several entities that may be considered as 
a single beneficiary (eg in the case of a small business that is affiliated to another small business, the limit would apply to the 
bank’s aggregated exposure on both businesses). 
33  To avoid circular calculations, the granularity criterion will be verified only once. The calculation must be done on the portfolio 
of retail exposures that meet the product and orientation criteria as well as the low value of the exposure.

[Page 23]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 19 
 
 
effect, indirectly financing land acquisition, development and construction exposures described 
in paragraph 74; or (ii) where the sovereign or PSEs involved have the legal powers and ability to 
ensure that the property under construction will be finished. 
• Legal enforceability: any claim on the property taken must be legally enforceable in all relevant 
jurisdictions. The collateral a greement and the legal process underpinning it must be such that 
they provide for the bank to realise the value of the property within a reasonable time frame.  
• Claims over the property: the loan is a claim over the property where the lender bank holds a first 
lien over the property, or a single bank holds the first lien and any sequentially lower ranking 
lien(s) (ie there is no intermediate lien from another bank) over the same property. However, in 
jurisdictions where junior liens provide the holder with a  claim for collateral that is legally 
enforceable and constitute an effective credit risk mitigant, junior liens held by a different bank 
than the one holding the senior lien may also be recognised. 34 In order to meet the above 
requirements, the national frameworks governing liens should ensure the following: (i) each bank 
holding a lien on a property can initiate the sale of the property independently from other entities 
holding a lien on the property; and (ii) where the sale of the property is not carried out by means 
of a public auction, entities holding a senior lien take reasonable steps to obtain a fair market 
value or the best price that may be obtained in the circumstances when exercising any power of 
sale on their own (ie it is not possible for the entity holding the senior lien to sell the property on 
its own at a discounted value in detriment of the junior lien). 35  
• Ability of the borrower to repay : the borrower must meet the requirements set according to 
paragraph 61. 
• Prudent value of property: the property must be valued according to the criteria in paragraph 62 
for determining the value in the loan to value (LTV) ratio. Moreover, the value of the property 
must not depend materially on the performance of the borrower. 
 
34  Likewise, this would apply to junior liens held by the same bank that holds the senior lien in case there is an intermediate lien 
from another bank (ie the senior and junior liens held by the bank are not in sequential ranking order). 
35  In certain jurisdictions, the majority of ba nk loans to individuals for the purchase of residential property are not provided as 
mortgages in legal form. Instead, they are typically provided as loans that are guaranteed by a highly rated monoline guarantor 
that is required to repay the bank in full if the borrower defaults, and where the bank has legal right to take a mortgage on the 
property in the event that the guarantor fails. These loans may be treated as residential real estate exposures (rather than 
guaranteed loans) if the following additional conditions are met: 
 (i) the borrower shall be contractually committed not to grant any mortgage lien without the consent of the bank that 
granted the loan; 
 (ii) the guarantor shall be either a bank or a financial institution subject to capital requirements comparable to those applied 
to banks or an insurance undertaking; 
 (iii) the guarantor shall establish a fully-funded mutual guarantee fund or equivalent protection for insurance undertakings 
to absorb credit risk losses, whose calibration shall be periodically reviewed by its supervisors and subject to periodic 
stress testing; and 
 (iv) the bank shall be contractually and legally allowed to take a mortgage on the property in the event that the guarantor 
fails.

[Page 24]
20 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• Required documentation : all the  information required at loan origination and for monitoring 
purposes must be properly documented, including information on the ability of the borrower to 
repay and on the valuation of the property. 
61. National supervisors should ensure that banks put in place underwriting policies with respect to 
the granting of mortgage loans that include the assessment of the ability of the borrower to repay. 
Underwriting policies must define a metric(s) (such as the loan’s debt service coverage ratio) and specify 
its (their) corresponding relevant level(s) to conduct such assessment. 36 Underwriting policies must also 
be appropriate when the repayment of the mortgage loan depends materially on the cash flows generated 
by the property, including relevant metrics (such as a n occupancy rate of the property).  National 
supervisors may provide guidance on appropriate definitions and levels for these metrics in their 
jurisdictions. 
62. The LTV ratio is the amount of the loan divided by the value of the property. The value of the 
property will be maintained at the value measured at origination unless national supervisors elect to 
require banks to revise the property value downward. 37 The value must be adjusted if  an extraordinary, 
idiosyncratic event occurs resulting in a permanent reduction of the property value. Modifications made 
to the property that unequivocally increase its value could also be considered in the LTV. When calculating 
the LTV ratio, the loan amount will be reduced as the loan amortises. 
The LTV ratio must be prudently calculated in accordance with the following requirements: 
• Amount of the loan: includes the outstanding loan amount and any undrawn committed amount 
of the mortgage loan. 38 The loan amount must be calculated gross of any provisions and other 
risk mitigants, except for pledged deposits accounts with the lending bank that meet all 
requirements for on -balance sheet netting and have been unconditionally and irrevocably 
pledged for the sole purposes of redemption of the mortgage loan. 39 
 
36  M etrics and levels for measuring the a bility to repay should mirror the FSB Principles for sound residential mortgage 
underwriting  practices (April 2012) .  
37  If the value has been adjusted downwards, a subsequent upwards adjustment can be made but not to a higher value than 
the value at origination.  
38  If a bank grants different loans secured by the same property and they are sequential in ranking order (ie there is no 
intermediate lien from another bank), the different loans should be considered as a single exposure for risk -weighting 
purposes, and the amount of the loans should be added to calculate the LTV ratio.  
39  In jurisdictions where junior liens held by a different bank than that holding the senior lien are recognised (in accordance 
with paragraph 60), the loan amount of the jun ior liens must include all other loans secured with liens of equal or higher 
ranking than the bank’s lien securing the loan for purposes of defining the LTV bucket and risk weight for the junior lien. 
If there is insufficient information for ascertaining t he ranking of the other liens, the bank should assume that these liens 
rank pari passu with the junior lien held by the bank. This treatment does not apply to exposures that are risk weighted 
according to paragraphs 65 and 71, where the junior lien would be taken into account in the calculation of the value of 
the property. The bank will first determine the “base” risk weight based on Tables 11, 12, 13 or 14 as applicable  and adjust 
the “base” risk weight by a multiplier of 1.25, for application to the loan  amount of the junior lien . If the “base” risk weight 
corresponds to the lowest LTV bucket, the multiplier will not be applied. The resulting risk weight of multiplying the “base”  
risk weight by 1.25 will be capped at the risk weight applied to the exposur e when the requirements in paragraph 60 are 
not met.

[Page 25]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 21 
 
 
• Value of the property: the valuation must be appraised independently 40  using prudently 
conservative valuation criteria. To ensure that the value of the property is appraised in a prudently 
conservative manner, the valuation must exclude expectations on price increases and must be 
adjusted to take into account the potential for the current market price to be significantly above 
the value that would be sustainable over the life of the loan. National supervisors should provide 
guidance setting out prudent valuation criteria where such guidance does not already exist under 
national law. If a market value can be determined, the valuation should not be higher than the 
market value.41 
A guarantee or financial collateral may be recognised as a credit risk mitigant in relation to 
exposures secured by real estate if it qualifies as eligible collateral under the credit risk mitigation 
framework. This may include mortgage insurance 42 if it meets the operational requirements of the credit 
risk mitigation framework for a guarantee. Banks may recognise these risk mitigants in calculating the 
exposure amount; however, the LTV bucket and risk weight to be applied to the exposure amount must 
be determined before the application of the appropriate credit risk mitigation technique. 
10.1 Exposures secured by residential real estate 
63. A residential real estate exposure is an exposure secured by an immovable property that has the 
nature of a dwelling and satisfies all applicable laws and regulations enabling the property to be occupied 
for housing purposes (ie residential property). 43 
64. Where the requirements in paragraph 60 are met and provided that paragraphs 67, 74 and 75 
are not applicable, the risk weight to be assigned to the total exposure amount will be determined based 
on the exposure’s LTV ratio in Table 11. 
Risk weight table for residential real estate exposures 
(Repayment is not materially dependent on cash flows generated by property) Table 11 
 
LTV ≤ 50% 50% < LTV ≤ 
60% 
60% < LTV ≤ 
80% 
80% < LTV ≤ 
90% 
90% < LTV ≤ 
100% 
LTV > 100% 
Risk weight 20% 25% 30% 40% 50% 70% 
 
65. As an alternative to the approach in paragraph 64, where the requirements in paragraph 60 are 
met and provided that paragraphs 67, 74 and 75 are not applicable, jurisdictions may apply a risk weight 
of 20% to the part of the exposure up to 55% of the property value and the risk weight of the counterparty 
as prescribed in footnote 45 to the residual exposure. 44 Where there are liens on the property that are not 
held by the bank, the treatment is as follows: 
• Case 1: the bank holds the junior lien and there are senior liens not held by the bank. When the 
value of all liens exceeds 55% of the property value, the amount of the bank’s lien that is eligible 
for the 20% risk weight should be calculated as the maxim um of: (i) 55% of the property value  
minus the amount of the senior liens; and (ii) zero . For example, for a loan of €70,000 to an 
 
40  The valuation must be done independently from the bank’s mortgage acquisition, loan processing and loan decision process. 
41  In the case where the mortgage loan is financing the purchase of the property, the value of the property for LTV purposes will 
not be higher than the effective purchase price. 
42  A bank’s use of mortgage insurance should mirror the FSB Principles for sound residential mortgage underwriting (April 2012). 
43  For residential property under construction described in paragraph 60, this means there should be an expectation that the 
property will satisfy all applicable laws and regulations enabling the property to be occupied for housing purposes 
44  For example, for a loan of €70,000 to an individual secured on a property valued at €100,000, the bank will apply a risk weight 
of 20% to €55,000 of the exposure and, according to footnote 45, a risk weight of 75% to the residual exposure of €15,000. 
This gives total risk weighted assets for the exposure of €22,250 =(0.20 * €55,000) + (0.75 * €15,000).

[Page 26]
22 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
individual secured on a property valued at €100,000, where there is also a senior ranking lien of 
€10,000 held by another institution, the bank will apply a risk weight of 20% to €45,000 
(=max(€55,000 - €10,000, 0)) of the exposure and, according to footnote 45, a risk weight of 75% 
to the residual exposure of €25,000. When the value of all liens does not exceed 55% of the 
property value, a risk weight of 20% will be applied to the bank’s exposure. 
• Case 2: there are liens not held by the bank that rank pari passu with the bank’s lien and there 
are no other senior or junior liens. When the value of all liens exceeds 55% of the property value, 
the part of the bank’s exposure that is eligible for the 20% risk weight should be calculated as 
the product of: (i) 55% of the property value; and (ii) the bank’s exposure divided by the sum of 
all pari passu liens.  For example, for a loan of €70,000 to an individual secured on a property 
valued at €100,000, where there is also a pari passu ranking lien of €10,000 held by another 
institution, the bank will apply a risk weight of 20% t o €48,125 (=€55,000 * €70,000/€80,000) of 
the exposure and, according to footnote 4 5, a risk weight of 75% to the residual exposure of 
€21,875. When the value of all liens does not exceed 55% of the property value, a risk weight of 
20% will be applied to the bank’s exposure. 
66. For exposures where any of the requirements in paragraph 60 are not met and paragraphs 67, 74 
and 75 are not applicable, the risk weight applicable will be the risk weight of the counterparty. 45  
67. When the prospects for servicing the loan materially depend 46 on the cash flows generated by 
the property securing the loan rather than on the underlying capacity of the borrower to service the debt 
from other sources, and provided that paragraphs 74 and 75 are not applicable, the exposure will be risk-
weighted as follows: 
• if the requirements in paragraph 60 are met, according to the LTV ratio as set out in Table 12 
below; and 
• if any of the requirements of paragraph 60 are not met, at 150%.  
The primary source of these cash flows would generally be lease or rental payments, or the sale 
of the residential property. The distinguishing characteristic of these exposures compared to other 
residential real estate exposures is that both the servicing of the loan and the prospects for recovery in 
the event of default depend materially on the cash flows generated by the property securing the exposure.  
Risk weight table for residential real estate exposures 
(Repayment is materially dependent on cash flows generated by property) Table 12 
 
LTV ≤ 
50% 
50% < LTV ≤ 
60% 
60% < LTV ≤ 
80% 
80% < LTV ≤ 
90% 
90% < LTV ≤ 
100% 
LTV > 100% 
Risk weight 30% 35% 45% 60% 75% 105% 
 
68. The following types of exposures are excluded from the treatment described in paragraph 67 and 
instead, subject to the treatment described in paragraphs 64 to 66: 
• An exposure secured by a property that is the borrower’s primary residence; 
 
45  For exposures to individuals the risk weight applied will be 75%. For exposures to SMEs, the risk weight applied will be 85%.  
For exposures to other counterparties, the risk weight applied is  the risk weight that would be assigned to an unsecured 
exposure to that counterparty.  
46  It is expected that the material dependence condition would predominantly apply to loans to corporates, SMEs or SPVs, but is 
not restricted to those borrower types. As an example, a loan may be considered materially dependent if more than 50% of the 
income from the borrower used in the bank’s assessment of its ability to service the loan is from cash flows generated by the  
residential property. National supervisors may provide further guidance setting out criteria on how material dependence should 
be assessed for specific exposure types.

[Page 27]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 23 
 
 
• An exposure secured by an income-producing residential housing unit, to an individual who has 
mortgaged less than a certain number of properties or housing units, as specified by national 
supervisors; 
• An exposure secured by residential real estate property to associations or cooperatives of 
individuals that are regulated under national law and exist with the only purpose of granting its 
members the use of a primary residence in the property securing the loans; and  
• An exposure secured by residential real estate property to public housing companies  and not-
for-profit associations regulated under national law that exist to serve social purposes and to 
offer tenants long-term housing. 
10.2 Exposures secured by commercial real estate 
69. A commercial real estate exposure is an exposure secured by any immovable property that is not 
a residential real estate as defined in paragraph 63. 
70. Where the requirements in paragraph 60 are met and provided that paragraphs 73, 74 and 75 
are not applicable, the risk weight to be assigned to the total exposure amount will be determined based 
on the exposure’s LTV ratio in Table 13 . For the purpose of paragraphs 70 to 72, “risk weight of the 
counterparty” refers to 75% for exposures to individuals, 85% for exposures to SMEs and for exposures to 
other counterparties, t he risk weight applied is the risk weight that would be assigned to an unsecured 
exposure to that counterparty. 
Risk weight table for commercial real estate exposures 
(Repayment is not materially dependent on cash flows generated by property) Table 13 
 
LTV ≤ 60% LTV > 60% 
Risk weight Min (60%, RW of counterparty) RW of counterparty 
 
71. As an alternative to the approach in paragraph 70, where the requirements in paragraph 60 are 
met and provided that paragraphs 73, 74 and 75 are not applicable, jurisdictions may apply a risk weight 
of 60% or the risk weight of the counterparty, whichever  is lower, to the part of the exposure up to 55% 
of the property value47, and the risk weight of the counterparty to the residual exposure.  
72. Where any of the r equirements in paragraph 60 are not met and paragraphs 73, 74 and 75 are 
not applicable, the risk weight applied will be the risk weight of the counterparty.  
73. When the prospects for servicing the loan materially depend 48 on the cash flows generated by 
the property securing the loan rather than on the underlying capacity of the borrower to service the debt 
 
47  Where there are liens on the property that are not held by the bank, the part of the exposure up to 55% of the property value 
should be reduced by the amount of the senior liens not held by the bank and by a pro-rata percentage of any liens pari passu 
with the bank’s lien but not held by the bank. See paragraph 65 for examples of how this methodology applies in the case of 
residential retail exposures. 
48  It is expected that the material dependence condition would predominantly apply to loans to corporates, SMEs or SPVs, but is 
not restricted to those borrower types. As an example: a loan may be considered materially dependent if more than 50% of the 
income from the borrower used in the bank’s assessment of its ability to service the loan is from cash flows generated by the

[Page 28]
24 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
from other sources,49 and provided that paragraphs 74 and 75 is not applicable, the exposure will be risk-
weighted as follows:50 
• if the requirements in paragraph 60 are met, according to the LTV ratio as set out in the risk -
weight Table 14 below; and 
• if any of the requirements of paragraph 60 are not met, at 150%.  
The primary source of these cash flows would generally be lease or rental payments, or the sale, 
of the commercial property. The distinguishing characteristic of these exposures compared to other 
commercial real estate exposures is that both the servicing of the loan and the recovery in the event of 
default depend materially on the cash flows generated by the property securing the exposure. 
Risk weight table for commercial real estate exposures 
(Repayment is materially dependent on cash flows generated by property) Table 14 
 
LTV ≤ 60% 60% < LTV ≤ 80% LTV > 80% 
Risk weight 70% 90% 110% 
10.3 Land acquisition, development and construction exposures 
74. Land acquisition, development and construction (ADC) exposures 51 refers to loans to companies 
or SPVs financing any of the land acquisition for development and construction purposes, or development 
and construction of any residential or commercial property. ADC exposures will be risk-weighted at 150%, 
unless they meet the criteria in paragraph 75. 
75. ADC exposures to residential real estate may be risk weighted at 100%, provided that the 
following criteria are met: 
• prudential underwriting standards meet the requirements in paragraph 60 where applicable;  
• pre-sale or pre -lease contracts amount to a signficant portion of total contracts or substantial 
equity at risk.52 Pre-sale or pre-lease contracts must be legally binding written contracts and the 
purchaser/renter must have made a substantial cash deposit which is subject to forfeiture if the 
contract is terminated. Equity at risk should be determined as an appropriate amount of 
borrower-contributed equity to the real estate’s appraised as-completed value. 
 
commercial property. National supervisors may provide further guidance setting out criteria on how material depen dence 
should be assessed for specific exposure types. 
49  For such exposures, national supervisors may allow banks to apply the treatment described in paragraphs 70 to 71 subject to 
the following conditions: (i) the losses stemming from commercial real estate lending up to 60% of LTV must not exceed 0.3% 
of the outstanding loans in any given year and (ii) overall losses stemming from commercial real estate lending must not exceed 
0.5% of the outstanding loans in any given year. If either of these tests are n ot satisfied in a given year, the eligibility of the 
exemption will cease and the exposures where the prospect for servicing the loan materially depend on cash flows generated 
by the property securing the loan rather than the underlying capacity of the bor rower to service the debt from other sources 
will again be risk weighted according to paragraph 73 until both tests are satisfied again in the future. Jurisdictions apply ing 
such treatment must publicly disclose whether these conditions are met. 
50  National supervisors may require that the risk weight treatment described in paragraph 73 be applied to exposures where the 
servicing of the loan materially depends on the cash flows generated by a portfolio of properties owned by the borrower. 
51  ADC exposures do not include the acquisition of forest or agricultural land, where there is no planning consent or intention to 
apply for planning consent. 
52  National supervisors will give further guidance on the appropriate levels of pre-sale or pre-lease contracts and/or equity at risk 
to be applied in their jurisdictions.

[Page 29]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 25 
 
 
11. Risk weight multiplier to certain exposures with currency mismatch 
76. For unhedged retail and residential real estate exposures to individuals where the lending 
currency differs from the currenc y of the borrower’s source of income, banks will apply a 1.5 times 
multiplier to the applicable risk weight according to paragraphs 54 to 58 and 63 to 68, subject to a 
maximum risk weight of 150%. 
77. For the purposes of paragraph 76, an unhedged exposure refers to an exposure to a borrower 
that has no natural or financial hedge against the foreign exchange risk resulting from the currency 
mismatch between the currency of the borrower’s income and the currency of the loan. A natural hedge 
exists where the b orrower, in its normal operating procedures, receives foreign currency income that 
matches the currency of a given loan (eg remittances, rental incomes, salaries). A financial hedge generally 
includes a legal contract with a financial institution (eg forward contract). For the purposes of application 
of the multiplier, only these natural or financial hedges are considered sufficient where they cover at least 
90% of the loan instalment, regardless of the number of hedges. 
12. Off-balance sheet items 
78.  Off- balance sheet items will be converted into credit exposure equivalents through the use of 
credit conversion factors (CCF). In the case of commitments, the committed but undrawn amount of the 
exposure would be multiplied by the CCF. For these purposes, com mitment means any contractual 
arrangement that has been offered by the bank and accepted by the client to extend credit, purchase 
assets or issue credit substitutes.53 It includes any such arrangement that can be unconditionally cancelled 
by the bank at any time without prior notice to the obligor. It also includes any such arrangement that can 
be cancelled by the bank if the obligor fails to meet conditions set out in the facility documentation, 
including conditions that must be met by the obligor prior to any initial or subsequent drawdown under 
the arrangement. Counterparty risk weightings for OTC derivative transactions will not be subject to any 
specific ceiling.  
79. A 100% CCF will be applied to the following items: 
• Direct credit substitutes, eg genera l guarantees of indebtedness (including standby letters of 
credit serving as financial guarantees for loans and securities) and acceptances (including 
endorsements with the character of acceptances). 
 
53  At national discretion, a jurisdiction may exempt certain arrangements from the definition of commitments provided that the 
following conditions are met: (i) the bank receives no fees or commissions to establish or maintain the arrangements; (ii) the 
client is required to apply to the bank for the initial and each subsequent drawdown; (iii) the bank has full authority, regardless 
of the fulfilment by the client of the conditions set out in the faci lity documentation, over the execution of each drawdown; 
and (iv) the bank’s decision on the execution of each drawdown is only made after assessing the creditworthiness of the client 
immediately prior to drawdown. Exempted arrangements that meet the above criteria are limited to certain arrangements for 
corporates and SMEs, where counterparties are closely monitored on an ongoing basis.

[Page 30]
26 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• Sale and repurchase agreements and asset sales with reco urse54 where the credit risk remains 
with the bank. 
• The lending of banks’ securities or the posting of securities as collateral by banks, including 
instances where these arise out of repo-style transactions (ie repurchase/reverse repurchase and 
securities lending/securities borrowing transactions). The risk -weighting treatment for 
counterparty credit risk must be applied in addition to the credit risk charge on the securities or 
posted collateral, where the credit risk of the securities lent or posted as collateral remains with 
the bank. This paragraph does not apply to posted collateral related to derivative transactions 
that is treated in accordance with the counterparty credit risk standards. 
• Forward asset purchases, forward forward deposits and partly paid shares and securities,55 which 
represent commitments with certain drawdown. 
• Off-balance sheet items that are credit substitutes not explicitly included in any other category.  
80. A 50% CCF will be applied to note issuance facilities (NIFs) and revolving underwriting facilities 
(RUFs) regardless of the maturity of the underlying facility. 
81. A 50% CCF will be applied to certain transaction-related contingent items (eg performance bonds, 
bid bonds, warranties and standby letters of credit related to particular transactions).  
82. A 40% CCF will be applied to commitments, regardless of the maturity of the underlying facility, 
unless they qualify for a lower CCF. 
83. A 20% CCF will be applied to both the issuing and confirming banks of short -term 56  self-
liquidating trade letters of credit arising from the moveme nt of goods (eg documentary credits 
collateralised by the underlying shipment). 
84. A 10% CCF will be applied to commitments that are unconditionally cancellable at any time by 
the bank without prior notice, or that effectively provide for automatic cancellation due to deterioration 
in a borrower’s creditworthiness. National supervisors should evaluate various factors in the jurisdiction, 
which may constrain banks’ ability to cancel the commitment in practice, and consider applying a higher 
CCF to certain commitments as appropriate. 
85. Where there is an undertaking to provide a commitment on an off-balance sheet item, banks are 
to apply the lower of the two applicable CCFs.57 
86. The credit equivalent amount of SFTs that expose a bank to counterparty credit risk is to be 
calculated under the comprehensive approach in paragraphs 155 to 178. The credit equivalent amount of 
OTC derivatives that expose a bank to counterparty credit risk is to be calculated under the rules for 
counterparty credit risk in paragraph 189. As an alternative for both SFTs and OTC derivatives, banks may 
use the Internal Model Method as set out the counterparty credit risk standards for calculating the credit 
equivalent amount, subject to supervisory approval. 
 
54  These items are to be weighted according to the type of asset and not according to the type of counterparty with whom the 
transaction has been entered into. 
55  These items are to be weighted according to the type of asset and not according to the type of counterparty with whom the 
transaction has been entered into. 
56  That is, with a maturity below one year. For further details see Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Treatment of trade 
finance under the Basel capital framework, October 2011, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs205.pdf. 
57  For example, if a bank has a commitment to open short-term self-liquidating trade letters of credit arising from the movement 
of goods, a 20% CCF will be applied (instead of a 40% CCF); and if a bank has an unconditionally cancellable commitment 
described in paragraph 84 to issue direct credit substitutes, a 10% CCF will be applied (instead of a 100% CCF).

[Page 31]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 27 
 
 
87. Banks must closely monitor securities, commodities and foreign exchange transactions that have 
failed, starting from the first day they fail. A capital charge on failed transactions must be calculated in 
accordance with Annex 3 of the Basel II framework (June 2006). 
88. Banks are  exposed to the risk associated with unsettled securities, commodities, and foreign 
exchange transactions from trade date. Irrespective of the booking or the accounting of the transaction, 
unsettled transactions must be taken into account for regulatory capital requirements purposes. Where 
they do not appear on the balance sheet (ie settlement date accounting), the unsettled exposure amount 
will receive a 100% CCF. B anks are encouraged to develop, implement and improve systems for tracking 
and monitoring the credit risk exposure arising from unsettled transactions as appropriate so that they 
can produce management information that facilitates timely action. Furthermore, when such transactions 
are not processed through a delivery -versus-payment (DvP) or payme nt-versus-payment (PvP) 
mechanism, banks must calculate a capital charge as set forth in Annex 3 of the Basel II framework (June 
2006). 
89. A bank providing credit protection through a first -to-default or second -to-default credit 
derivative is subject to capital requirements on such instruments. For first-to-default credit derivatives, the 
risk weights of the assets included in the basket must be aggregated up to a maximum of 1250% and 
multiplied by the nominal amount of the protection provided by the credit derivative to obtain the risk -
weighted asset amount. For second -to-default credit derivatives, the treatment is similar; however, in 
aggregating the risk weights, the asset with the lowest risk -weighted amount can be excluded from the 
calculation. This treatment applies respectively for nth-to-default credit derivatives, for which the n-1 assets 
with the lowest risk-weighted amounts can be excluded from the calculation. 
13. Defaulted exposures 
90. For risk-weighting purposes under the standardised approach, a d efaulted exposure is defined 
as one that is past due for more than 90 days, or is an exposure to a defaulted borrower. A defaulted 
borrower is a borrower in respect of whom any of the following events have occurred:  
• Any material credit obligation that is p ast due for more than 90 days. Overdrafts will be 
considered as being past due once the customer has breached an advised limit or been advised 
of a limit smaller than current outstandings;  
• Any material credit obligation is on non-accrued status (eg the lending bank no longer recognises 
accrued interest as income or, if recognised, makes an equivalent amount of provisions);  
• A write-off or account-specific provision is made as a result of a significant perceived decline in 
credit quality subsequent to the bank taking on any credit exposure to the borrower;  
• Any credit obligation is sold at a material credit-related economic loss; 
• A distressed restructuring of any credit obligation (ie a restructuring that may result in a 
diminished financial obligation caused by the material forgiveness, or postponement, of principal, 
interest or (where relevant) fees) is agreed by the bank; 
• The borrower’s bankruptcy or a similar order in respect of any of the borrower’s credit obligations 
to the banking group has been filed;  
• The borrower has sought or has been placed in bankruptcy or similar protection where this would 
avoid or delay repayment of any of the credit obligations to the banking group; or  
• Any other situation where the bank considers that the borrower is unlikely t o pay its credit 
obligations in full without recourse by the bank to actions such as realising security.

[Page 32]
28 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
91. For retail exposures, the definition of default can be applied at the level of a particular credit 
obligation, rather than at the level of the borrower. As such, default by a borrower on one obligation does 
not require a bank to treat all other obligations to the banking group as defaulted.  
92. With the exception of residential real estate exposures treated under paragraph 93, the unsecured 
or unguaranteed portion of a defaulted exposure shall be risk -weighted net of specific provisions and 
partial write-offs as follows: 
• 150% risk weight when specific provisions are less than 20% of the outstanding amount of the 
loan; and 
• 100% risk weight when specif ic provisions are equal or greater than 20% of the outstanding 
amount of the loan.58 
93. Defaulted residential real estate exposures where repayments do not materially depend on cash 
flows generated by the property securing the loan shall be risk -weighted net of specific provisions and 
partial write-offs at 100%. Guarantees or financial collateral which are eligible according to the credit risk 
mitigation framework might be taken into account in the calculation of the exposure in accordance with 
paragraph 62.  
94. For the purpose of defining the secured or guaranteed portion of the defaulted exposure, eligible 
collateral and guarantees will be the same as for credit risk mitigation purposes (see Section D).  
14. Other assets 
95. The standard risk weight for al l other assets will be 100%, with the exception of exposures 
mentioned in paragraphs 96 and 97. 
96. A 0% risk weight will apply to (i) cash owned and held at the bank or in transit; and (ii) gold bullion 
held at the bank or held in another bank on an alloc ated basis, to the extent the gold bullion assets are 
backed by gold bullion liabilities. 
97. A 20% risk weight will apply to cash items in the process of collection. 
B. Recognition of external ratings by national supervisors 
1. The recognition process 
98. In jurisdictions that allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes, only credit 
assessments from credit rating agencies recognised as external credit assessment institutions (ECAIs) will 
be allowed. National supervisors are responsible for determining on a continuous basis whether an ECAI 
meets the criteria listed in paragraph 99 and recognition should only be provided in respect of ECAI ratings 
for types of claim where all criteria and conditions are met . National supervisors should also take  into 
account the criteria and conditions provided in the IOSCO Code of Conduct Fundamentals for Credit Rating 
Agencies59 when determining ECAI eligibility. The supervisory process for recognising ECAIs should be 
made public to avoid unnecessary barriers to entry.  
 
58  National supervisors have discretion to reduce the risk weight to 50% when specific provisions are no less than 50% of the 
outstanding amount of the loan. 
59  Available at www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD482.pdf.

[Page 33]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 29 
 
 
2. Eligibility criteria 
99. An ECAI must satisfy each of the following eight criteria.  
• Objectivity: The methodology for assigning external ratings must be rigorous, systematic, and 
subject to some form of validation based on historical experience . Moreover, external ratings 
must be subject to ongoing review and responsive to changes in financial condition. Before being 
recognised by supervisors, a rating methodology for each market segment, including rigorous 
backtesting, must have been established for at least one year and preferably three years. 
• Independence: An ECAI should be independent and should not be subject to political or 
economic pressures that may influence the rating. In particular, an ECAI should not delay or 
refrain from taking a rating action based on its potential effect (economic, political or otherwise). 
The rating process should be as free as possible from any constraints that could arise in situations 
where the composition of the board of directors or the shareholder structure of the CRA may be 
seen as creating a conflict of interest. Furthermore, an ECAI should separate operationally, legally 
and, if practicable, physically its rating business from other businesses and analysts. 
• International access/transparency : The individual ratings, the key elements underlining the 
assessments and whether the issuer participated in the rating process should be publicly available 
on a non-selective basis, unless they are private ratings, which should be at least available to both 
domestic and foreign insitutions with legitimate interest and on equivalent terms. In addition, the 
ECAI’s general procedures, methodologies and assumptions for arriving at ratings should be 
publicly available. 
• Disclosure: An ECAI should disclose the following information: its code of conduct; the general 
nature of its compensation arrangements with assessed entities; any conflict of interest, 60 the 
ECAI's compensation arrangements, 61 its assessment methodologies, including the definition of 
default, the time horizon, and the meaning of each rating; the actual default rates experienced in 
each assessment category; and the transitions of the ratings, eg the likelihood of AA ratings 
becoming A over time. A rating should be disclosed as soon as practicably possible after issuance. 
 
60  At a minimum, the fol lowing situations and their influence on the ECAI’s credit rating methodologies or credit rating actions 
shall be disclosed: 
• The ECAI is being paid to issue a credit rating by the rated entity or by the obligor, originator, underwriter, or arranger of 
the rated obligation; 
• The ECAI is being paid by subscribers with a financial interest that could be affected by a credit rating action of the ECAI; 
• The ECAI is being paid by rated entities, obligors, originators, underwriters, arrangers, or subscribers for services other than 
issuing credit ratings or providing access to the ECAI’s credit ratings; 
• The ECAI is providing a preliminary indication or similar indication of credit quality to an entity, obligor, originator, 
underwriter, or arranger prior to being hired to determine the final credit rating for the entity, obligor, originator, 
underwriter, or arranger; and 
• The ECAI has a direct or indirect ownership interest in a rated entity or obligor, or a rated entity or obligor has a direct or 
indirect ownership interest in the ECAI. 
61  An ECAI should disclose the general nature of its compensation arrangements with rated entities, obligors, lead underwriters, 
or arrangers. 
 When the ECAI receives from a rated entity, obligor, originator, lead underwriter, or arra nger compensation unrelated to its 
credit rating services, the ECAI should disclose such unrelated compensation as a percentage of total annual compensation 
received from such rated entity, obligor, lead underwriter, or arranger in the relevant credit rati ng report or elsewhere, as 
appropriate. 
 An ECAI should disclose in the relevant credit rating report or elsewhere, as appropriate, if it receives 10% or more of its annual 
revenue from a single client (eg a rated entity, obligor, originator, lead underwri ter, arranger, or subscriber, or any of their 
affiliates).

[Page 34]
30 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
When disclosing a rating, the information should be provided in plain language, indicating the 
nature and limitation of credit ratings and the risk of unduly relying on them to make investments. 
• Resources: An ECAI should have sufficient resources to carry out high-quality credit assessments. 
These resources should allow for substantial ongoing contact with senior and operational levels 
within the entities assessed in order to add value to the credit assessments. In particular, ECAIs 
should assign analysts with appropriate knowledge and experience to assess the creditworthiness 
of the type of entity or obligation being rated. Such assessments should be based on 
methodologies combining qualitative and quantitative approaches. 
• Credibility: To some extent, credibility is derived from the criteria above. In addition, the reliance 
on an ECAI’s external ratings by independent parties (investors, insurers, trading partners) is 
evidence of the credibility of the ratings of an ECAI. The credibility of an ECAI is also underpinned 
by the existence of internal procedures to prevent the misuse of confidential information. In order 
to be eligible for recognition, an ECAI does not have to assess firms in more than one country.  
• No abuse of unsolicited ratings : ECAIs mus t not use unsolicited ratings to put pressure on 
entities to obtain solicited ratings. Supervisors should consider whether to continue recognising 
such ECAIs as eligible for capital adequacy purposes, if such behaviour is identified.  
• Cooperation with the s upervisor: ECAIs should notify the supervisor of significant changes to 
methodologies and provide access to external ratings and other relevant data in order to support 
intial and continued determination of eligibility. 
C. Implementation considerations in jurisdictions that allow use of 
external ratings for regulatory purposes 
1. The mapping process 
100. Supervisors will be responsible for assigning eligible ECAIs’ ratings to the risk weights available 
under the standardised risk weighting framework, ie deciding which rating categories correspond to which 
risk weights. The mapping process should be objective and should result in a risk weight assignment 
consistent with that of the level of credit risk reflected in the tables above. It should cover the full spectrum 
of risk weights. 
101. When conducting such a mapping process, factors that supervisors should assess include, among 
others, the size and scope of the pool of issuers that each ECAI covers, the range and meaning of the 
ratings that it assigns, and the definition of default used by the ECAI.  
102. In order to promote a more consistent mapping of ratings into the available risk weights and 
help supervisors in conducting such a process, Annex 2 of the Basel II framework (June 2006) provides 
guidance as to how such a mapping process may be conducted. 
103. Banks must use the chosen ECAIs and their ratings consistently for all types of claim where they 
have been recognised by their supervisor as an eligible ECAI, for both risk-weighting and risk management 
purposes. Banks will not be allowed to “cherry -pick” the ratings provided by different ECAIs and to 
arbitrarily change the use of ECAIs.

[Page 35]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 31 
 
 
2. Multiple external ratings 
104. If there is only one rating by an ECAI chosen by a bank for a particular claim, that  rating should 
be used to determine the risk weight of the exposure. 
105. If there are two ratings by ECAIs chosen by a bank that map into different risk weights, the higher 
risk weight will be applied. 
106. If there are three or more ratings with differen t risk weights, the two ratings that correspond to 
the lowest risk weights should be referred to. If these give rise to the same risk weight, that risk weight 
should be applied. If different, the higher risk weight should be applied.  
3. Determination of whether an exposure is rated: Issue-specific and issuer ratings 
107. Where a bank invests in a particular issue that has an issue- specific rating, the risk weight of the 
exposure will be based on this rating. Where the bank’s exposure is not an investment in a specific rated 
issue, the following general principles apply. 
• In circumstances where the borrower has a specific rating for an issued debt – but the bank’s 
exposure is not an investment in this particular debt – a high-quality credit rating  (one which 
maps into a risk weight lower than that which applies to an unrated claim) on that specific debt 
may only be applied to the bank’s unrated exposure if this claim ranks in all respects pari passu 
or senior to the claim with a rating. If not, the external rating cannot be used and the unassessed 
claim will receive the risk weight for unrated exposures. 
• In circumstances where the borrower has an issuer rating, this rating typically applies to senior 
unsecured claims on that issuer. Consequently, only senior claims on that issuer will benefit from 
a high-quality issuer rating. Other unassessed exposures of a highly rated issuer will be treated 
as unrated. If either the issuer or a single issue has a low-quality rating (mapping into a risk weight 
equal to or higher than that which applies to unrated exposures), an unassessed exposure to the 
same counterparty that ranks pari passu or is subordinated to either the senior unsecured issuer 
rating or the exposure with a low -quality rating will be assigned the same ri sk weight as is 
applicable to the low-quality assessment. 
• In circumstances where the issuer has a specific high-quality rating (one which maps into a lower 
risk weight) that only applies to a limited class of liabilities (such as a deposit assessment or a 
counterparty risk assessment), this may only be used in respect of exposures that fall within that 
class. 
108. Whether the bank intends to rely on an issuer - or an issue-specific rating, the rating must take 
into account and reflect the entire amount of credit risk exposure the bank has with regard to all payments 
owed to it.62  
 
62  For example, if a bank is owed both principal and interest, the assessment must fully take into account and reflect the credi t 
risk associated with repayment of both principal and interest.

[Page 36]
32 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
109. In order to avoid any double-counting of credit enhancement factors, no supervisory recognition 
of credit risk mitigation techniques will be taken into account if the credit enhancement is already reflected 
in the issue specific rating (see paragraph 121). 
4. Domestic currency and foreign currency ratings 
110. Where exposures are risk -weighted based on the rating of an equivalent exposure to that 
borrower, the general rule is that foreign currency ratings would be used for exposures in foreign currency. 
Domestic currency ratings, if separate, would only  be used to risk-weight exposures denominated in the 
domestic currency.63 
5. Short-term/long-term ratings 
111. For risk-weighting purposes, short -term ratings are deemed to be issue -specific. They can only 
be used to derive risk weights for exposures arising from the rated facility. They cannot be generalised to 
other short-term exposures, except under the conditions of paragraph 113. In no event can a short -term 
rating be used to support a risk weight for an unrated long -term exposure. Short-term ratings may only 
be used for short- term exposures against banks and corporates. The table below provides a framework 
for banks’ exposures to specific short-term facilities, such as a particular issuance of commercial paper: 
Risk weight table for specific short-term ratings Table 15 
External rating A-1/P-164 A-2/P-2 A-3/P-3 Others65 
Risk weight 20% 50% 100% 150% 
 
112. If a short -term rated facility attracts a 50% risk- weight, unrated short -term exposures cannot 
attract a risk weight lower than 100%. If an issuer has a short -term facility with an external rating that 
warrants a risk weight of 150%, all unrated exposures,  whether long -term or short -term, should also 
receive a 150% risk weight, unless the bank uses recognised credit risk mitigation techniques for such 
exposures.  
113. In cases where short -term ratings are available, the following interaction with the genera l 
preferential treatment for short-term exposures to banks as described in paragraph 19 will apply: 
• The general preferential treatment for short-term exposures applies to all exposures to banks of 
up to three months original maturity when there is no specific short-term claim assessment. 
• When there is a short -term rating and such a rating maps into a risk weight that is more 
favourable (ie lower) or identical to that derived from the general preferential treatment, the 
short-term rating should be used for the specific exposure only. Other short -term exposures 
would benefit from the general preferential treatment. 
 
63  H owever, when an exposure arises through a bank’s participation in a loan that has been extended, or has been guaranteed 
against convertibility and transfer risk, by certain MDBs, its convertibility and transfer risk can be considered by national  
supervisors to be effectively mitigated. To qualify, MDBs must have preferred creditor status recognised in the market and be 
included in footnote 11 (in paragraph 14). In such cases, for risk-weighting purposes, the borrower’s domestic currency rating 
may be used instead of its foreign currency rating. In the case of a guarantee against convertibility and transfer risk, the local 
currency rating can be used only for the portion that has been guaranteed. The portion of the loan not benefiting from such a 
guarantee will be risk-weighted based on the foreign currency rating. 
64  The notations follow the methodology used by Standard & Poor’s and by Moody’s Investors Service. The A-1 rating of Standard 
& Poor’s includes both A-1+ and A-1–. 
65  This category includes all non-prime and B or C ratings.

[Page 37]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 33 
 
 
• When a specific short-term rating for a short term exposure to a bank maps into a less favourable 
(higher) risk weight, the general short-term preferential treatment for interbank exposures cannot 
be used. All unrated short-term exposures should receive the same risk weighting as that implied 
by the specific short-term rating. 
114. When a short-term rating is to be used, the institution making the assessment needs to meet all 
of the eligibility criteria for recognising ECAIs, as described in paragraph 99, in terms of its short -term 
ratings.  
6. Level of application of the rating 
115. External ratings for one entity within a corporate group cannot  be used to risk -weight other 
entities within the same group. 
7. Use of unsolicited ratings 
116. As a general rule, banks should use solicited ratings from eligible ECAIs. National supervisors may 
allow banks to use unsolicited ratings in the same way as solicited ratings if they are satisfied that the credit 
assessments of unsolicited ratings are not inferior in quality to the general quality of solicited ratings.  
D. Credit risk mitigation techniques for exposures risk-weighted under 
the standardised approach 
1. Overarching issues 
(i) Introduction 
117. Banks use a number of techniques to mitigate the credit risks to which they are exposed. For 
example, exposures may be collateralised by first-priority claims, in whole or in part with cash or securities, 
a loan exposure may be guaranteed by a third party, or a bank may buy a credit derivative to offset various 
forms of credit risk. Additionally banks may agree to net loans owed to them against deposits from the 
same counterparty.66  
118.  The framework set ou t in this section is applicable to banking book exposures that are risk -
weighted under the standardised approach.  
(ii) General requirements 
119. No transaction in which CRM techniques are used shall receive a higher capital requirement than 
an otherwise identical transaction where such techniques are not used.  
120.  The Pillar 3 requirements must be fulfilled for banks to obtain capital relief in respect of any CRM 
techniques. 
121. The effects of CRM must not be double-counted. Therefore, no additional supervisory recognition 
of CRM for regulatory capital purposes will be granted on exposures for which the risk weight already 
 
66  In this section, “counterparty” is used to denote a party to whom a bank has an on- or off-balance sheet credit exposure. That 
exposure may, for example, take the form of a loan of cash or securities (where the counterparty would traditionally be called 
the borrower), of securities posted as collateral, of a commitment or of exposure under an OTC derivatives contract.

[Page 38]
34 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
reflects that CRM. Consistent with paragraph 108, principal-only ratings will also not be allowed within the 
CRM framework. 
122. While the use of CRM techniques reduces or transfers credit risk, it may simultaneously increase 
other risks (ie residual risks). Residual risks include legal, operational, liquidity and market risks. Therefore, 
banks must employ robust procedures and processes to control these risks, including strategy; 
consideration of the underlying credit; valuation; policies and procedures; systems; control of roll-off risks; 
and management of concentration risk arising from the bank’s use of CRM techniques and its interaction 
with the bank’s overall credit risk profile. Where these risks are not adequately controlled, supervisors may 
impose additional capital charges or take other supervisory actions as outlined in Pillar 2. 
123. In order for CRM techniques to provide protection, the credit quality of the counterparty must 
not have a material positive correlation  with the employed CRM technique or with the resulting residual 
risks (as defined in paragraph 122). For example, securities issued by the counterparty (or by any 
counterparty-related entity) provide little protection as collateral and are thus ineligible.  
124. In the case where a bank has multiple CRM techniques covering a single exposure (eg a bank has 
both collateral and a guarantee partially covering an exposure), the bank must subdivide the exposure 
into portions covered by each type of CRM technique (eg portion covered by collateral, portion covered 
by guarantee) and  the risk-weighted assets of each portion must be calculated separately. When credit 
protection provided by a single protection provider has differing maturities, they must be subdivided into 
separate protection as well. 
(iii) Legal requirements 
125. In order for banks to obtain capital relief for any use of CRM techniques, all documentation used 
in collateralised transactions, on -balance sheet netting agreements, guarantees and credit derivatives 
must be binding on all parties and legally enforceable in al l relevant jurisdictions. Banks must have 
conducted sufficient legal review to verify this and have a well-founded legal basis to reach this conclusion, 
and undertake such further review as necessary to ensure continuing enforceability. 
(iv) General treatment of maturity mismatches 
126. For the purposes of calculating risk -weighted assets, a maturity mismatch occurs when the 
residual maturity of a credit protection arrangement (eg hedge) is less than that of the underlying 
exposure.  
127.  In the case of financial collateral, maturity mismatches are not allowed under the simple approach 
(see paragraph 147).  
128.  Under the other approaches, when there is a maturity mismatch the credit protection 
arrangement may only be recognised if the ori ginal maturity of the arrangement is greater than or equal 
to one year, and its residual maturity is greater than or equal to three months. In such cases, credit risk 
mitigation may be partially recognised as detailed below in paragraph 129.  
129. When there is a maturity mismatch with recognised credit risk mitigants, the following adjustment 
applies 
0.25
0.25
a
tPP T
−= ⋅ −  
where: 
• Pa= value of the credit protection adjusted for maturity mismatch 
• P = credit protection amount (eg collateral amount, guarantee amount) adjusted for any haircuts 
• t = min {T, residual maturity of the credit protection arrangement expressed in years}

[Page 39]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 35 
 
 
• T =min {five years, residual maturity of the exposure expressed in years} 
130.  The maturity of the underlying exposure and the maturity of the hedge must both be defined 
conservatively. The effective maturity of the underlying must be gauged as the longest possible remaining 
time before the counterparty is scheduled to fulfil its obligation, taking into account any applicable grace 
period. For the hedge, (embedded) options that may reduce the term of the hedge must be taken into 
account so that the shortest possible effective maturity is used. For example: where, in the case of a credit 
derivative, the protection seller has a call option, the maturity is the first call date. Likewise, if the protection 
buyer owns the call option and has a strong incentive to call the transaction at the first call date, for 
example because of a step-up in cost from this date on, the effective maturity is the remaining time to the 
first call date.  
(v) Currency mismatches 
131. Currency mismatches are allowed under all approaches. Under the simple approach there is no 
specific treatment for currency mismatches, given that a minimum risk weight of 20% (floor) is generally 
applied. Under the comprehensive approach and in case of guarantees and credit derivatives, a specific 
adjustment for currency mismatches is prescribed in paragraphs 165 and 204, respectively. 
2.  Overview of credit risk mitigation techniques67 
(i) Collateralised transactions 
132. A collateralised transaction is one in which: 
• banks have a credit exposure or a potential credit exposure; and 
• that credit exposure or potential credit exposure is hedged in whole or in part by collateral posted 
by a counterparty or by a third party on behalf of the counterparty.  
Where banks take eligible financial collateral, they may reduce their regulatory capital 
requirements through the application of CRM techniques. 68  
133. Banks may opt for either:  
(i) The simple approach, which replaces the risk weight of the counterparty with the risk weight of 
the collateral for the collateralised portion of the exposure (generally subject to a 20% floor); or  
(ii) The comprehensive approach, which allows a more precise offset of collateral against exposures, 
by effectively reducing the exposure amount by a volatility -adjusted value ascribed to the 
collateral.  
Detailed operational requirements for both approaches are given in paragraphs 146 to 178. Banks 
may operate under either, but not both, approaches in the banking book.  
134.  For collateralised OTC transactions, exchange traded derivatives and long settlement 
transactions, banks may use the standardised approach for counterparty credit risk ( SA-CCR) or the 
Internal Model Method to calculate the exposure amount, in accordance with paragraph 189. 
 
67  See Annex 10 of Basel II (June 2006) for an overview of methodologies for the capital treatment of transacti ons secured by 
financial collateral under the standardised and IRB approaches. 
68  Alternatively, banks with appropriate supervisory approval may instead use the Internal Model Method to determine the 
exposure amount, taking into account collateral.

[Page 40]
36 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(ii) On-balance sheet netting 
135. Where banks have legally enforceable netting arrangements for loans and deposits that meet the 
conditions in paragraph 190 they may calculate capital requirements on the basis of net credit exposures 
as set out in that paragraph. 
(iii) Guarantees and credit derivatives 
136. Where guarantees or credit derivatives fulfil the minimum operational conditions set out in 
paragraphs 19 1 to 19 3, banks may take account of the credit protection offered by such credit risk 
mitigation techniques in calculating capital requirements. 
137. A range of guarantors and protection providers are recognised and a substitution approach 
applies for capital requirement calculations. Only guarantees issued by or protection provided by entities 
with a lower risk weight than the counterparty lead to reduced capital charges for the guaranteed 
exposure, since the protected portion of the counterparty exposure is assigned the risk weight of the 
guarantor or protection provider, whereas the uncovered portion retains the risk weight of the underlying 
counterparty. 
138. Detailed conditions and operational requirements for guarantees and credit derivatives are given 
in paragraphs 191 to 205. 
3.  Collateralised transactions  
(i)  General requirements  
139. Before capital relief is granted in respect of any form of collateral, the standards set out below in 
paragraphs 140 to 145 must be met, irrespective of whether the simple or the comprehensive approach is 
used. Banks that lend securities or post collateral must calculate capital requirements for both of the 
following: (i) the credit risk or market risk of the securities, if this remains with the bank; and (ii) the 
counterparty credit risk arising from the risk that the borrower of the securities may default.  
140. The legal mechanism by which collateral is pledged or transferred must ensure that the bank has 
the right to liquidate or take legal possession of it , in a timely manner, in the event of the default, 
insolvency or bankruptcy (or one or more otherwise -defined credit events set out in the transaction 
documentation) of the counterparty (and, where applicable, of the custodian holding the collateral). 
Additionally, banks must take all steps necessary to fulfil those requirements under the law applicable to 
the bank’s interest in the collateral for obtaining and maintaining an enforceable security interest, eg by 
registering it with a registrar, or for exercising a right to net or set off in relation to the title transfer of the 
collateral. 
141. Banks must have clear and robust procedures for the timely liquidation of collateral to ensure 
that any legal conditions required for declaring the default of the counterparty and liquidating the 
collateral are observed, and that collateral can be liquidated promptly. 
142. Banks must ensure that sufficient resources are devoted to the ord erly operation of margin 
agreements with OTC derivative and securities -financing counterparties, as measured by the timeliness 
and accuracy of its outgoing margin calls and response time to incoming margin calls. Banks must have 
collateral risk management policies in place to control, monitor and report:  
• the risk to which margin agreements expose them (such as the volatility and liquidity of the 
securities exchanged as collateral);  
• the concentration risk to particular types of collateral; 
• the reuse of col lateral (both cash and non -cash) including the potential liquidity shortfalls 
resulting from the reuse of collateral received from counterparties; and

[Page 41]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 37 
 
 
• the surrender of rights on collateral posted to counterparties. 
143. Where the collateral is held by a custodian, banks must take reasonable steps to ensure that the 
custodian segregates the collateral from its own assets. 
144. A capital requirement must be applied on both sides of a transaction. For example, both repos 
and reverse repos will be subject to c apital requirements. Likewise, both sides of a securities lending and 
borrowing transaction will be subject to explicit capital charges, as will the posting of securities in 
connection with derivatives exposures or with any other borrowing transaction.  
145. Where a bank, acting as an agent, arranges a repo -style transaction (ie repurchase/reverse 
repurchase and securities lending/borrowing transactions) between a customer and a third party and 
provides a guarantee to the customer that the third party will perform on its obligations, then the risk to 
the bank is the same as if the bank had entered into the transaction as a principal. In such circumstances, 
a bank must calculate capital requirements as if it were itself the principal. 
(ii)  The simple approach 
General requirements for the simple approach 
146.  Under the simple approach, the risk weight of the counterparty is replaced by the risk weight of 
the collateral instrument collateralising or partially collateralising the exposure. 
147. For collateral to be recognised in the simple approach, it must be pledged for at least the life of 
the exposure and it must be marked to market and revalued with a minimum frequency of six months. 
Those portions of exposures collateralised by the market value of recognised collateral receive the risk 
weight applicable to the collateral instrument. The risk weight on the collateralised portion is subject to a 
floor of 20% except under the conditions specified in paragraphs 150 to 154. The remainder of the 
exposure must be assigned the risk weight appropriate to the counterparty. Maturity mismatches are not 
allowed under the simple approach (see paragraphs 126 and 127). 
Eligible financial collateral under the simple approach 
148. The following collateral instruments are eligible for recognition in the simple approach: 
(a) Cash (as well as certificates of deposit or comparable instruments issued by the lending bank) on 
deposit with the bank that is incurring the counterparty exposure. 69, 70 
(b) Gold. 
(c) In jurisdictions that allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes:  
(i) Debt securities rated by a recognised ECAI where these are either: 
− at least BB – when issued by sovereigns or PSEs that are treated as sovereigns by the 
national supervisor; or 
− at least BBB – when issued by other entities (including banks and other prudentially 
regulated financial institutions); or 
− at least A-3/P-3 for short-term debt instruments. 
 
69  Cash-funded credit-linked notes issued by the bank against exposures in the banking book that fulfil the criteria for credit 
derivatives are treated as cash-collateralised transactions.  
70  When cash on deposit, certificates of deposit or comparable instruments issued by the lending bank are held as collateral at a 
third-party bank in a non -custodial arrangement, if they are openly pledged/assigned to the lending bank and if the 
pledge/assignment is unconditional and irrevocable, the exposure amount covered by the collateral (after any necessary 
haircuts for currency risk) receives the risk weight of the third-party bank.

[Page 42]
38 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(ii) Debt securities not rated by a recognised ECAI where these are:  
− issued by a bank; and 
− listed on a recognised exchange; and 
− classified as senior debt; and 
− all rated issues of the same seniority by the issuing bank are rated at least BBB – or A-
3/P-3 by a recognised ECAI; and 
− the bank holding the securities as collateral has no information to suggest that the issue 
justifies a rating below BBB– or A-3/P-3 (as applicable); and 
− the supervisor is sufficiently confident that the market liquidity of the security is 
adequate. 
(d) In jurisdictions that do not allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes, the following 
securities will be eligible provided that the supervisor is sufficiently confident that the market 
liquidity of the security is adequate:  
(i) Debt securities issued by sovereigns or PSEs that are treated as sovereigns by t he national 
supervisor; 
(ii) Debt securities issued by banks assigned to Grade A under the SCRA; 
(iii) Other debt securities issued by “investment grade” entities as defined in paragraph 197, and 
(iv) Securitisation exposures with a risk weight of less than 100%. 
(e) Equities (including convertible bonds) that are included in a main index. 
(f) Undertakings for Collective Investments in Transferable Securities (UCITS) and mutual funds 
where: 
• a price for the units is publicly quoted daily; and 
• the UCITS/mutual fund is limited to investing in the instruments listed in this paragraph. 71  
149. Resecuritisations as defined in the securitisation framework are not eligible financial collateral.  
Exemptions under the simple approach to the risk-weight floor  
150. Repo-style transactions that fulfil all of the following conditions are exempted from the risk -
weight floor under the simple approach:  
(a) Both the exposure and the collateral are cash or a sovereign security or PSE security qualifying 
for a 0% risk weight under the standardised approach;  
(b) Both the exposure and the collateral are denominated in the same currency; 
(c) Either the transaction is overnight or both the exposure and the collateral are marked to market 
daily and are subject to daily remargining; 
(d) Following a counterparty’s failure to remargin, the time that is required between the last mark -
to-market before the failure to remargin and the liquidation of the collateral is considered to be 
no more than four business days; 
(e) The transaction is settled across a settlement system proven for that type of transaction;  
 
71  However, the use or potential use by a UCITS/mutual fund of derivative instruments solely to hedge investments listed in this 
paragraph and paragraph 159 shall not prevent units in that UCITS/mutual fund from being eligible financial collateral.

[Page 43]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 39 
 
 
(f) The documentation covering the agreement is standard market documentation for repo -style 
transactions in the securities concerned; 
(g) The transaction is governed by documentation specifying that if the counterparty fails to satisfy 
an obligation to deliver cash or securities or to deliver margin or otherwise defaults, then the 
transaction is immediately terminable; and 
(h) Upon any default event, regardless of whether the counterparty is insolvent or bankrupt, the bank 
has the unfettered, legally enforceable right to immediately seize and liquidate the collateral for 
its benefit. 
151. Core market participants may include, at the discretion of the national supervisor, the following 
entities: 
(a) Sovereigns, central banks and PSEs; 
(b) Banks and securities firms; 
(c) Other financial companies (including insurance companies) eligible for a 20% risk weight in the 
standardised approach; 
(d) Regulated mutual funds that are subject to capital or leverage requirements;  
(e) Regulated pension funds; and 
(f) Qualifying central counterparties (QCCPs). 
152.  Repo transactions that fulfil the requirement in paragraph 150 receive a 10% risk weight, as an 
exemption to the risk weight floor described in paragraph 147. If the counterparty to the transaction is a 
core market participant, banks may apply a risk weight of 0% to the transaction.  
153. OTC derivative transactions subject to daily mark -to-market, collateralised by cash and where 
there is no currency mismatch may receive a 0% risk weight. Such transactions collateralised by sovereign 
or PSE securities qualifying for a 0% risk weight in the standardised approach may receive a 10% risk 
weight.  
154. The 20% floor for the risk weight on a collateralis ed transaction does not apply and a 0% risk 
weight may be applied where the exposure and the collateral are denominated in the same currency, and 
either: 
• the collateral is cash on deposit as defined in paragraph 148(a); or 
• the collateral is in the form of sovereign/PSE securities eligible for a 0% risk weight, and its market 
value has been discounted by 20%. 
(iii)  The comprehensive approach 
(a) General requirements for the comprehensive approach 
155. In the comprehensive approach, when taking collateral, b anks must calculate their adjusted 
exposure to a counterparty in order to take account of the risk mitigating effect of that collateral. Banks 
must use the applicable supervisory haircuts to adjust both the amount of the exposure to the 
counterparty and the value of any collateral received in support of that counterparty to take account of 
possible future fluctuations in the value of either, 72 as occasioned by market movements. Unless either 
side of the transaction is cash or a zero haircut is applied, the volatility-adjusted exposure amount is higher 
than the nominal exposure and the volatility-adjusted collateral value is lower than the nominal collateral 
value. 
 
72  Exposure amounts may vary where, for example, securities are being lent.

[Page 44]
40 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
156. The size of the individual haircuts depends on the type of instrument, type of transaction, residual 
maturity and the frequency of marking to market and remargining as provided in paragraphs 163 and 164. 
Haircuts must be scaled up using the square root of time formula depending on the frequency of 
remargining or marking to market. This formula is included in paragraph 172. 
157. Additionally, where the exposure and collateral are held in different currencies, banks must apply 
an additional haircut to the volatility -adjusted collateral amount in accordance with paragraph s 165 
and 204 to take account of possible future fluctuations in exchange rates. 
158. The effect of master netting agreements covering repo -style transactions can be recognised for 
the calculation of capital requirements subject to the conditions and requirements in paragraphs  175 
to 178. 
(b) Eligible financial collateral under the comprehensive approach 
159. The following collateral instruments are eligible for recognition in the comprehensive approach: 
(a) All of the instruments listed in paragraph 148; 
(b) Equities and convertible bonds that are not included in a main index but which are listed on a 
recognised security exchange; 
(c) UCITS/mutual funds which include the instruments in point (b). 
(c) Calculation of capital requirement for transactions secured by financial collateral 
160. For a collateralised transaction, the exposure amount after risk mitigation is calculated as follows: 
( ) ( ){ }
* 0, 1 1 e c fxE max E H C H H= ⋅+ −⋅− −  
where: 
E* = the exposure value after risk mitigation 
E = current value of the exposure  
He = haircut appropriate to the exposure 
C = the current value of the collateral received 
Hc = haircut appropriate to the collateral 
Hfx = haircut appropriate for currency mismatch between the collateral and exposure 
161.  In the case of maturity mismatches, the value of the collateral received (collateral amount) must 
be adjusted in accordance with paragraphs 126 to 130.  
162. The exposure amount after risk mitigation (E *) must be multiplied by the risk weight of the 
counterparty to obtain the risk-weighted asset amount for the collateralised transaction. 
163. In jurisdictions that allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes , the following 
supervisory haircuts (assuming daily mark- to-market, daily remargining and a 10 -business day holding 
period), expressed as percentages, m ust be used to determine the haircuts appropriate to the collateral 
(Hc) and to the exposure (He):

[Page 45]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 41 
 
 
Supervisory haircuts for comprehensive approach 
Jurisdictions that allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes Table 14 
Issue rating for debt 
securities Residual maturity Sovereigns73 Other issuers74 Securitisation 
exposures75 
AAA to AA–/A-1 
≤ 1 year 0.5 1 2 
>1 year, ≤ 3 years 2 3 8 
>3 years, ≤ 5 years 4 
>5 years, ≤ 10 years 4 6 16 
> 10 years 12 
A+ to BBB–/ 
A-2/A-3/P-3 and 
unrated bank 
securities per para. 
148(c)(ii) 
≤ 1 year 1 2 4 
>1 year, ≤ 3 years 3 4 12 
>3 years, ≤ 5 years 6 
>5 years, ≤ 10 years 6 12 24 
> 10 years 20 
BB+ to BB– All 15 Not eligible Not eligible 
Main index equities (including convertible 
bonds) and gold 
20 
Other equities and convertible bonds listed on 
a recognised exchange 
30 
UCITS/mutual funds Highest haircut applicable to any security in which the fund can 
invest, unless the bank can apply the look-through approach (LTA) 
for equity investments in funds, in which case the bank may use a 
weighted average of haircuts applicable to instruments held by the 
fund. 
Cash in the same currency76 0 
 
164. In jurisdictions that do not allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes, the following 
supervisory haircuts (assuming daily mark- to-market, daily remargining and a 10 -business day holding 
period), expressed as percentages, must be used to determine the haircuts appropriate to the collateral 
(Hc) and to the exposure (He): 
 
73 Includes: PSEs that are treated as sovereigns by the national supervisor, as well as multilateral development banks receiving a 
0% risk weight. 
74 Includes PSEs that are not treated as sovereigns by the national supervisor. 
75  Those exposures that meet the definition set forth in the securitisation framework. 
76  Eligible cash collateral specified in paragraph 148(a).

[Page 46]
42 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
Supervisory haircuts for comprehensive approach 
Jurisdictions that do not allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes Table 15 
 
Residual maturity 
Issuer’s risk weight (only for 
securities issued by 
sovereigns77 
Other investment-grade securities, 
consistent with paragraphs 148(d)(iii)78 
0% 20% or 
50% 100% 
Non-
securitisation 
exposures 
Senior securitisation 
exposures with risk 
weight < 100% 
Debt securities ≤ 1 year 0.5 1 15 2 4 
>1 year, ≤ 3 years 
2 3 15 
4 
12 
>3 years, ≤ 5 years 6 
>5 years, ≤ 10 years 
4 6 15 
12 
24 
> 10 years 20 
Main index equities 
(including convertible 
bonds) and gold 
20 
Other equities and 
convertible bonds 
listed on a 
recognised exchange 
30 
UCITS/mutual funds Highest haircut applicable to any security in which the fund can invest, unless the bank can 
apply the look-through approach (LTA) for equity investments in funds, in which case the bank 
may use a weighted average of haircuts applicable to instruments held by the fund. 
Cash in the same 
currency79 0 
Other exposure types 30 
 
165. The haircut for currency risk (Hfx) where exposure and collateral are denominated in different 
currencies is 8% (also based on a 10-business day holding period and daily mark-to-market). 
166.  For SFTs and secured lending transactions, a haircut adjustment may need to be applied in 
accordance with paragraphs 169 to 172. 
167. For SFTs in which the bank lends, or posts as collateral, non -eligible instruments, the haircut to 
be applied on the exposure must be 30%. For transactions in which the bank borrows non -eligible 
instruments, credit risk mitigation may not be applied. 
168. Where the collateral is a basket of assets, the haircut on the basket must be iiiH aH=∑ , where 
ai is the weight of the asset (as measured by units of currency) in the basket and Hi the haircut applicable 
to that asset. 
(d) Adjustment for different holding periods and non-daily mark-to-market or remargining 
169. For some transactions, depending on the nature and frequency of the revaluation and 
remargining provisions, different holding periods and thus different haircuts must be applied. The 
framework for collateral haircuts distinguishes between repo-style transactions (ie repo/reverse repos and 
 
77 Includes: PSEs that are treated as sovereigns by the national supervisor, as well as multilateral development banks receiving a 
0% risk weight. 
78  Includes PSEs that are not treated as sovereigns by the national supervisor. 
79  Eligible cash collateral specified in paragraph 148(a).

[Page 47]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 43 
 
 
securities lending/borrowing), ”other capital markets-driven transactions” (ie OTC derivatives transactions 
and margin lending) and secured lending. In capital -market-driven transactions and repo -style 
transactions, the documentation contains remargining clauses; in secured lending transactions, it generally 
does not. 
170. The minimum holding period for various products is summarised in the following table:  
Adjustment to supervisory haircuts 
For different holding periods and non-daily mark-to-market or remargining Table 16 
Transaction type Minimum holding period Condition 
Repo-style transaction five business days daily remargining 
Other capital market transactions 10 business days daily remargining 
Secured lending 20 business days daily revaluation 
 
171.  Where a bank has a transaction or netting set that meets the criteria outlined in paragraphs 41(i) 
or 41(ii) of the counterparty credit risk standards, the minimum holding period must be the margin period 
of risk that would apply under those paragraphs. 
172. When the frequency of remargining or revaluation is longer than the minimum, the minimum 
haircut numbers must be scaled up depending on the actual number of business days between 
remargining or revaluation. The 10 -business day haircuts provided in parag raphs 163 and 164 are the 
default haircuts and these haircuts must be scaled up or down using the formula below:  
( )
10
1
10
RMNT
HH
+−
=  
where: 
H  = haircut 
H10  = 10-business day haircut for instrument 
NR  = actual number of business days between remargining for capital market transactions or 
revaluation for secured transactions 
TM  = minimum holding period for the type of transaction. 
(e) Exemptions under the comprehensive approach for qualifying repo-style transactions 
involving core market participants  
173. For repo-style transactions with core market participants as defined in paragraph 151 and that 
satisfy the conditions in paragraph 150 supervisors may apply a haircut of zero.  
174. Where, under the comprehensive approach, a supervisor applies a specific carve -out to repo -
style transactions in securities issued by its domestic government, other supervisors may choose to allow 
banks incorporated in their jurisdiction to adopt the same approach to the same transactions.  
(f) Treatment under the comprehensive approach of SFTs covered by master netting 
agreements 
175. The effects of bilateral netting agreements covering repo -style transactions may be recognised 
on a counterparty -by-counterparty basis if the agreements are legally enforceable in each relevant 
jurisdiction upon the occurrence of an event of default and regardless of whether the counterparty is 
insolvent or bankrupt. In addition, netting agreements must:

[Page 48]
44 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(a) provide the non -defaulting party the right to terminate and close out in a timely manner all 
transactions under the agreement upon an event of default, including in the event of insolvency 
or bankruptcy of the counterparty; 
(b) provide for the netting of gains and losses on transactions (including the va lue of any collateral) 
terminated and closed out under it so that a single net amount is owed by one party to the other;  
(c) allow for the prompt liquidation or set-off of collateral upon the event of default; and  
(d) be, together with the rights arising  from the provisions required in (a) to (c) above, legally 
enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction upon the occurrence of an event of default and 
regardless of the counterparty’s insolvency or bankruptcy. 
176. Netting across positions in the banking and trading book may only be recognised when the 
netted transactions fulfil the following conditions: 
• All transactions are marked to market daily;80 and 
• The collateral instruments used in the transactions are recognised as eligible financial collateral 
in the banking book. 
177. The formula in paragraph 17 8 will be used to calculate the counterparty credit risk capital 
requirements for transactions with netting agreements. This formula includes the current exposure, an 
amount for systematic exposure of the securities based on the net exposure, an amount for the 
idiosyncratic exposure of the securities based on the gross exposure, and an amount for currency 
mismatch. All other rules regarding the calculation of haircuts under the comprehensive approach stated  
in paragraphs 155 to 174 equivalently apply for banks using bilateral netting agreements for repo -style 
transactions. 
178. Banks using standard supervisory haircuts for repo -style transactions conducted under a master 
netting agreement must use the following formula to calculate their exposure amount:  
( )
*  0; 0.4   0.6i j fx fx
i i fx
grossexposureE max E C net exposure E H
N
= − +⋅ +⋅ +

⋅∑∑ ∑  
where:  
E* = exposure value of the netting set after risk mitigation 
Ei = current value of all cash and securities lent, sold with an agreement to repurchase or 
otherwise posted to the counterparty under the netting agreement 
Cj = current value of all cash and securities borrowed, purchased with an agreement to resell 
or otherwise held by the bank under the netting agreement  
  ss
s
net exposure E H= ∑  
   ss
s
grossexposure E H= ∑  
Es = The net current value of each security issuance under the netting set (always a positive 
value) 
Hs = haircut appropriate to Es as described in tables of paragraphs 163 or 164, as applicable,  
 
80  The holding period for the haircuts depends, as in other repo-style transactions, on the frequency of margining.

[Page 49]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 45 
 
 
− Hs has a positive sign if the security is lent, sold with an agreement to repurchased, 
or transacted in manner similar to either securities lending or a repurchase 
agreement  
− Hs has a negative sign if the security is borrowed, purchased with an agreement to 
resell, or transacted in a manner similar to either a securities borrowing or reverse 
repurchase agreement 
N   is the number of security issues contained in the netting set (except that issuances where 
the value Es is less than one tenth of the value of the largest Es in the netting set are not 
included the count) 
Efx = absolute value of the net position in each currency fx different from the settlement 
currency 
Hfx = haircut appropriate for currency mismatch of currency fx. 
(iv)  Minimum haircut floors for SFTs 
179. Paragraphs 180 to 188 specify the treatment of certain non-centrally cleared SFTs with certain 
counterparties. The requirements are not applicable to banks in juri sdictions that are prohibited from 
conducting such transactions below the minimum haircut floors specified in paragraph 18 4 below. 
180.  The haircut floors found in paragraph 184 below apply to the following transactions: 
• Non-centrally cleared SFTs in which the financing (ie the lending of cash) against collateral other 
than government securities is provided to counterparties who are not supervised by a regulator 
that imposes prudential requirements consistent with international norms. 
• Collateral upgrade transactions with these same counterparties. A collateral upgrade transaction 
is when a bank lends a security to its counterparty and the counterparty pledges a lower quality 
security as collateral, thus allowing the counterparty to exchange a lower quality security for a 
higher quality security. For these transactions, the floors must be calculated according to the 
formula set out in paragraph 187. 
181.  SFTs with central banks are not subject to the haircut floors. 
182.  Cash-collateralised securities lending transactions are exempted from the haircut floors where: 
• Securities are lent (to the bank) at long maturities and the lender of securities reinvests or 
employs the cash at the same or shorter maturity, therefore not giving rise to material maturity 
or liquidity mismatch. 
• Securities are lent (to the bank) at call or at short maturities, giving rise to liquidity risk, only if the 
lender of the securities reinvests the cash collateral into a reinvestment fund or account subject 
to regulations or regulatory guidance meeting the minimum standards for reinvestment of cash 
collateral by securities lenders set out in Section 3.1 of the Policy Framework for Addressing 
Shadow Banking Risks in Securities Lending and Repos .81 For this purpose, banks may rely on 
representations by securities lenders that their reinvestment of cash collateral meets the 
minimum standards. 
183.  Banks that lend securities are exempted from the haircut floors on collateral upgrade transactions 
if they are unable to re-use, or provide representations that they do not and will not reuse, the securities 
received as collateral against the securities lent. 
 
81  Financial Stability Board, Strengthening oversight and regulation of shadow banking, Policy framework for addressing shadow 
banking risks in securities lending and repos, 29 August 2013, www.fsb.org/wp-content/uploads/r_130829b.pdf.

[Page 50]
46 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
184.  These are the haircut floors for SFTs referred to above (herein referred to as “in -scope SFTs”), 
expressed as percentages: 
Residual maturity of collateral 
Haircut level 
Corporate and other issuers Securitised products 
≤ 1 year debt securities, and 
floating rate notes (FRNs) 0.5% 1% 
> 1 year, ≤ 5 years debt securities 1.5% 4% 
> 5 years, ≤ 10 years debt 
securities 3% 6% 
> 10 years debt securities 4% 7% 
Main index equities 6% 
Other assets within the scope of the 
framework 10% 
 
185.  In-scope SFTs which do not meet the haircut floors must be treated as unsecured loans to the 
counterparties. 
186.  To determine whether the treatment in paragraph 18 5 applies to an in -scope SFT (or a netting 
set of SFTs in the case of portfolio -level haircuts), we must compare the collateral haircut H (real or 
calculated as per the rules below) and a haircut floor f (from paragraph 184 above or calculated as per the 
below rules). 
187.  For a single in-scope SFT not included in a netting set, the values of H and f are computed as: 
• For a single cash -lent-for-collateral SFT, H and f are known since H is simply define d by the 
amount of collateral received and f is given in paragraph 184. For the purposes of this calculation, 
collateral that is called by either counterparty can be treated collateral received from the moment 
that it is called (ie the treatment is independent of the settlement period).  
For example, consider an in -scope SFT where 100 cash is lent against 101 of a corporate debt 
security with a 12 -year maturity, H is 1% [(101 -100)/100] and f is 4% (per paragraph 184 ). 
Therefore, the SFT in question would be subject to the treatment in paragraph 185. 
• For a single collateral -for-collateral SFT, lending collateral A and receiving collateral B, the H is 
still be defined by the amount of collateral received but the effective floor of the transaction must 
integrate the floor of the two types of collateral and can be computed as: 
111 1111 1
B
AB A
ff ff f
   += −= −  ++ +  
 
which will be compared to the effective haircut of the transaction, ie 1B
A
C
C − . 
For example, consider an in -scope SFT where 102 of a corporate debt security with a 10 -year 
maturity is exchanged against 104 of equity, the effective haircut H of the transaction is 104/102 
– 1 = 1.96% which has to be compared with the effective floor f of 1.06/1.03 – 1 =2.91%. 
Therefore, the SFT in question would be subject to the treatment in paragraph 185. 
188. For a netting of SFTs an effective “portfolio” floor of the transaction must be computed as: 
( ) ( )
1
11
stst
Portfolio
ss ttst
EC
f
Ef Cf
  
  = −   ×+ ×+  
∑∑
∑∑

[Page 51]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 47 
 
 
where Es is the net position in each security (or cash) s that is net lent, Ct the net position that is net 
borrowed, and fs and ft are the haircut floors for the securities that are net lent and net borrowed 
respectively. This calculation is therefore the weighted average floor of the portfolio. Then the portfolio 
does not breach the floor where: 
ts
Portfolio
s
CE
f
E
−
≥∑∑
∑
 
If the portfolio haircut does breach the floor, then the netting set of SFTs is subject to the 
treatment in paragraph 185. This treatment should be applied to all trades for which the security received 
appears in the table in paragraph 184 and for which, within the netting set, the bank is also a net receiver 
in that security. For the purposes of this calculation, collateral that is called by either counterparty can be 
treated collateral received from the moment that it is called (ie the treatment is independent of the 
settlement period). 
The following portfolio of trades gives an example of how this methodology works (it shows a 
portfolio that does not breach the floor). 
Actual trades Cash Sovereign debt Collateral A Collateral B 
Floor (fs) 0% 0% 6% 10% 
Portfolio of trades 50 100 -400 250 
Es 50 100 0 250 
Ct 0 0 400 0 
     
Portfoliof  -0.0024    
ts
s
CE
E
−∑∑
∑
 0 
   
 
(v)  Collateralised OTC derivatives transactions 
189. Under the standardised approach for counterparty credit risk (SA -CCR), the calculation of the 
counterparty credit risk charge for an individual contact will be as follows: 
( ) Exposure amount alpha RC PFE= ⋅+  
where:  
Alpha = 1.4, 
RC =  the replacement cost calculated according to paragraphs 130 to 145 of the counterparty 
credit risk standards, and 
PFE =  the amount for potential future exposure calculated according to paragraphs 146 to 187 
of the counterparty credit risk standards. 
As an alternative to the SA-CCR for the calculation of the counterparty credit risk charge, banks 
may also use the Internal Model Method as set out in the counterparty credit risk standards , subject to 
supervisory approval. 
4. On-balance sheet netting 
190. Where a bank:

[Page 52]
48 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(a) has a well founded legal basis for concluding that the netting or offsetting agreement is 
enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction regardless of whether the counterparty is insolvent or 
bankrupt; 
(b) is able at any time to determine those assets and liabilities with the same counterparty that are 
subject to the netting agreement; 
(c) monitors and controls its roll-off risks; and  
(d) monitors and controls the relevant exposures on a net basis,  
it may use the net exposure of loans and deposits as the basis for its capital adequacy calculation in 
accordance with the formula in paragraph 16 0. Assets (loans) are treated as exposure and liabilities 
(deposits) as collateral. The haircuts are zero except when a currency mismatch exists. A 10-business day 
holding period applies when daily mark -to-market is conducted. For on -balance sheet netting, the 
requirements in paragraphs 163 and 172 and 126 to 130 must be applied.  
5. Guarantees and credit derivatives 
(i) Operational requirements for guarantees and credit derivatives 
191.  If conditions set below are met, banks can substitute the risk weight of the counterparty with the 
risk weight of the guarantor.  
192. A guarantee (counter-guarantee) or credit derivative must satisfy the following requirements: 
(a) it represents a direct claim on the protection provider; 
(b) it is explicitly referenced to specific exposures or a pool of exposures, so that the extent of the 
cover is clearly defined and incontrovertible; 
(c) other than non- payment by a protection purchaser of money due in respect of the credit 
protection contract it is irrevocable;  there is no clause in the contract that would allow the 
protection provider unilaterally to cancel the credit cover or that would increase the effective cost 
of cover as a result of deteriorating credit quality in the hedged exposure; 82 
(d) it must be unconditional; there should be no clause in the protection contract outside the direct 
control of the bank that could prevent the protection provider from being obliged to pay out in 
a timely manner in the event that the underlying counterparty fails to make the payment(s) due.  
193.  In the case of maturity mismatches, the amount of credit protection that is provided must be 
adjusted in accordance with paragraphs 126 to 130.  
(ii)  Specific operational requirements for guarantees 
194. In addition to the legal certainty requirements in paragraph 125, in order for a guarantee to be 
recognised, the following requirements must be satisfied: 
(a) On the qualifying defaul t/non-payment of the counterparty, the bank may in a timely manner 
pursue the guarantor for any monies outstanding under the documentation governing the 
transaction. The guarantor may make one lump sum payment of all monies under such 
documentation to the bank, or the guarantor may assume the future payment obligations of the 
counterparty covered by the guarantee. The bank must have the right to receive any such 
payments from the guarantor without first having to take legal action in order to pursue the 
counterparty for payment. 
 
82  There must be no possibility for the protection provider to change the maturity agreed ex post.

[Page 53]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 49 
 
 
(b) The guarantee is an explicitly documented obligation assumed by the guarantor. 
(c) Except as noted in the following sentence, the guarantee covers all types of payments the 
underlying counterparty is expected to make under the do cumentation governing the 
transaction, for example notional amount, margin payments, etc. Where a guarantee covers 
payment of principal only, interests and other uncovered payments must be treated as an 
unsecured amount in accordance with the rules for pro portional cover described in paragraph 
202. 
(iii)  Specific operational requirements for credit derivatives 
195. In addition to the legal certainty requirements in paragraph 125, in order for a credit derivative 
contract to be recognised, the following requirements must be satisfied: 
(a) The credit events specified by the contracting parties must at a minimum cover:  
− failure to pay the amounts due under terms of the underlying obligation that are in effect at 
the time of such failure (with a grace period that is closely in line with the grace period in 
the underlying obligation); 
− bankruptcy, insolvency or inability of the obligor to pay its debts, or its failure or admission 
in writing of its inability generally to pay its debts as they become due, and analogous events; 
and 
− restructuring 83  of the underlying obligation involving forgiveness or postponement of 
principal, interest or fees that results in a credit loss event (ie write -off, specific provision or 
other similar debit to the profit and loss account). 
(b) If the credit derivative covers obligations that do not include the underlying obligation, section 
(g) below governs whether the asset mismatch is permissible. 
(c) The credit derivative shall not terminate prior to expiration of any grace period required for a 
default on the underly ing obligation to occur as a result of a failure to pay. In the case of a 
maturity mismatch, the provisions of paragraphs 126 to 130 must be applied.  
(d) Credit derivatives allowing for cash settlement are recognised for capital purposes insofar as a 
robust valuation process is in place in order to estimate loss reliably. There must be a clearly 
specified period for obtaining post -credit-event valuations of the underlying obligation. If the 
reference obligation specified in the credit derivative for purposes of cash settlement is different 
from the underlying obligation, section (g) below governs whether the asset mismatch is 
permissible. 
(e) If the protection purchaser’s right/ability to transfer the underlying obligation to the protection 
provider is required for settlement, the terms of the underlying obligation must provide that any 
required consent to such transfer may not be unreasonably withheld. 
(f) The identity of the parties responsible for determining whether a credit event has occurred must 
be clearly defined. This determination must not be the sole responsibility of the protection seller. 
The protection buyer must have the right/ability to inform the protection provider of the 
occurrence of a credit event. 
 
83  When hedging corporate exposures, this particular credit event is not required to be specified provided that (i) A 100% vote is 
needed to amend maturity, principal, coupon, currency or seniority status of the underlying corporate exposure; (ii) The legal 
domicile in which the corporate exposure is governed has a well -established bankruptcy code that allows for a company to 
reorganise/restructure and provides for an orderly se ttlement of creditor claims. If these conditions are not met, then the 
treatment in paragraph 196 may be eligible.

[Page 54]
50 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(g) A mismatch between the underlying obl igation and the reference obligation under the credit 
derivative (ie the obligation used for purposes of determining cash settlement value or the 
deliverable obligation) is permissible if (1) the reference obligation ranks pari passu with or is 
junior to the underlying obligation, and (2) the underlying obligation and reference obligation 
share the same obligor (ie the same legal entity) and legally enforceable cross -default or cross-
acceleration clauses are in place. 
(h) A mismatch between the underlying o bligation and the obligation used for purposes of 
determining whether a credit event has occurred is permissible if (1) the latter obligation ranks 
pari passu with or is junior to the underlying obligation, and (2) the underlying obligation and 
reference obligation share the same obligor (ie the same legal entity) and legally enforceable 
cross-default or cross-acceleration clauses are in place. 
196. When the restructuring of the underlying obligation is not covered by the credit derivative, but 
the other requirements in paragraph 19 5 are met, partial recognition of the credit derivative will be 
allowed. If the amount of the credit derivative is less than or equal to the amount of the underlying 
obligation, 60% of the amount of the hedge can be recognised as covered. If the amount of the credit 
derivative is larger than that of the underlying obligation, then the amount of eligible hedge is capped at 
60% of the amount of the underlying obligation. 
(iv)  Range of eligible guarantors (counter-guarantors)/protection providers and credit 
derivatives 
197.  Credit protection given by the following entities can be recognised when they have a lower risk 
weight than the counterparty: 
• Sovereign entities,84 PSEs, MDBs, banks, securities firms and other prudentially regulated financial 
institutions with a lower risk weight than the counterparty; 85  
• In jurisdictions that allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes: 
− other entities that are externally rated except when credit protection is provided to a 
securitisation exposure. This would include credit protection provided by a parent, subsidiary 
and affiliate companies when they have a lower risk weight than the obligor; 
− when credit protection is provided to a securitisation exposure, other entities that currently 
are externally rated BBB – or better and that were externally rated A – or better at the time 
the credit protection was provided. This would include credit protection provided by parent, 
subsidiary and affiliate companies when they have a lower risk weight than the obligor. 
• In jurisdictions that do not allow the use of external ratings for regulatory purposes:  
− Other entities, defined as “investment grade” meaning they have adequate capacity to meet 
their financial commitments (including repayments of principal and interest) in a timely 
manner, irrespective of the economic cycle and business conditions. 
 
84  This includes the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the European 
Union, the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) and the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF), as well as MDBs eligible for 
a 0% risk weight as defined in paragraph 14 and referred to in footnote 11. 
85  A prudentially regulated financial institution is defined a s: a legal entity supervised by a regulator that imposes prudential 
requirements consistent with international norms or a legal entity (parent company or subsidiary) included in a consolidated 
group where any substantial legal entity in the consolidated gr oup is supervised by a regulator that imposes prudential 
requirements consistent with international norms. These include, but are not limited to, prudentially regulated insurance 
companies, broker/dealers, thrifts and futures commission merchants, and qualifying central counterparties as defined in Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision, Regulatory capital requirements framework for bank exposures to central counterparties , 
July 2012, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs227.pdf.

[Page 55]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 51 
 
 
When making this determination, the bank should assess the entity against the investment 
grade definition taking into account the complexity of its business mod el, performance 
against industry and peers, and risks posed by the entity’s operating environment.  
Moreover, the following conditions will have to be met: 
o For corporate entities (or the entity’s parent company), they must have securities 
outstanding on a recognised securities exchange; 
o The creditworthiness of these “investment grade entities” is not positively correlated 
with the credit risk of the exposures for which they provided guarantees. 
− Parent, subsidiary and affiliate companies of the obligor where  their creditworthiness is not 
positively correlated with the credit risk of the exposures for which they provided guarantees. 
For an intra -group company to be recognised as eligible guarantor, the credit risk of the 
whole group should be taken into account. 
198. Only credit default swaps and total return swaps that provide credit protection equivalent to 
guarantees are eligible for recognition. 86 The following exception applies: where a bank buys credit 
protection through a total return swap and records the net payments received on the swap as net income, 
but does not record offsetting deterioration in the value of the asset that is protected (either through 
reductions in fair value or by an addition to reserves), the credit protection will not be recognised .  
199. First-to-default and all other nth -to-default credit derivatives (ie by which a bank obtains credit 
protection for a basket of reference names and where the first - or nth–to-default among the reference 
names triggers the credit protection and terminates the contract) are not eligible as a credit risk mitigation 
technique and therefore cannot provide any regulatory capital relief. In transactions in which a bank 
provided credit protection through such instruments, it shall apply the treatment describ ed in 
paragraph 89. 
(v) Risk- weight treatment of transactions in which eligible credit protection is provided 
General risk-weight treatment 
200. The protected portion is assigned the risk weight of the protection provider. The uncovered 
portion of the exposure is assigned the risk weight of the underlying counterparty.  
201. Materiality thresholds on payments below which the protection provider is exempt from payment 
in the event of loss are equivalent to retained first-loss positions. The portion of the exposure that is below 
a materiality threshold must  be assigned a risk weight of 1 250% by the bank purchasing the credit 
protection. 
Proportional cover 
202. Where losses are shared pari passu on a pro rata basis between the bank and the guarantor, 
capital relief is afforded on a proportional basis, ie the protected portion of the exposure receives the 
treatment applicable to eligible guarantees/credit derivatives, with the remainder treated as unsecured.  
Tranched cover 
203. Where the bank transfers a portion  of the risk of an exposure in one or more tranches to a 
protection seller or sellers and retains some level of the risk of the loan, and the risk transferred and the 
risk retained are of different seniority, banks may obtain credit protection for either t he senior tranches 
 
86  Cash-funded credit-linked notes issued by the bank against exposures in the banking book that fulfil all minimum requirements 
for credit derivatives are treated as cash -collateralised transactions. However, in this case the limitations regardi ng the 
protection provider as set out in paragraph 197 do not apply.

[Page 56]
52 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(eg the second-loss portion) or the junior tranche (eg the first -loss portion). In this case the rules as set 
out in the securitisation standard apply.  
(vi)  Currency mismatches  
204.  Where the credit protection is denominated in a cur rency different from that in which the 
exposure is denominated – ie there is a currency mismatch – the amount of the exposure deemed to be 
protected must be reduced by the application of a haircut HFX, ie 
( )1A FXGG H=⋅−  
where: 
G  = nominal amount of the credit protection 
HFX = haircut appropriate for currency mismatch between the credit protection and underlying 
obligation. 
The currency mismatch haircut for a 10-business day holding period (assuming daily marking to 
market) is 8%. This haircut must be scaled up using the square root of time formula, depending on the 
frequency of revaluation of the credit protection as described in paragraph 172. 
(vii)  Sovereign guarantees and counter-guarantees 
205. As specified in paragraph 8, a lower risk weight may be applied at national discretion to a bank’s 
exposures to the sovereign (or central bank) where the bank is incorporated and where the exposure is 
denominated in domestic currency and funded in that currency. National supervisors may extend thi s 
treatment to portions of exposures guaranteed by the sovereign (or central bank), where the guarantee is 
denominated in the domestic currency and the exposure is funded in that currency. An exposure may be 
covered by a guarantee that is indirectly counte r-guaranteed by a sovereign. Such an exposure may be 
treated as covered by a sovereign guarantee provided that: 
(a) the sovereign counter-guarantee covers all credit risk elements of the exposure; 
(b) both the original guarantee and the counter -guarantee meet all operational requirements for 
guarantees, except that the counter -guarantee need not be direct and explicit to the original 
exposure; and 
(c) the supervisor is satisfied that the cover is robust and that no historical evidence suggests that 
the coverage of the counter-guarantee is less than effectively equivalent to that of a direct 
sovereign guarantee.

[Page 57]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 53 
 
 
Internal ratings-based approach for credit risk 
A. Overview  
1.  This section describes the IRB approach for credit risk. Subject to certain minimum conditions 
and disclosure requirements, banks that have received supervisory approval to use the IRB approach may 
rely on their own internal estimates of risk components in determining the capital requirement for a given 
exposure. The risk components include measures of the probability of default (PD), loss given default 
(LGD), the exposure at default (EAD), and effective maturity (M). In some cases, banks may be required to 
use a supervisory value as opposed to an internal estimate for one or more of the risk components.  
2. The IRB approach is based on measures of unexpected losses (UL) and expected losses (EL). The 
risk-weight functions produce capital requirements for the UL portion. Expected losses are treated 
separately, as outlined in paragraph 43 of the Basel II framework (June 2006)1 and Section G below.  
3. In this section, the asset classes are defined first. Adoption of the IRB approach across asset 
classes is also discussed early in this section. The risk components, each of which is defined later in this 
section, serve as inputs to the risk -weight functions that have been developed for separate asset classes. 
For example, there is a risk -weight function for corporate exposures and another one for qualifyin g 
revolving retail exposures. The treatment of each asset class begins with a presentation of the relevant 
risk-weight function(s) followed by the risk components and other relevant factors, such as the treatment 
of credit risk mitigants. The legal certainty standards for recognising CRM as set out in paragraphs 117 to 
205 of the standardised approach apply for both the foundation and advanced IRB approaches. The 
minimum requirements that banks must satisfy to use the IRB approach are presented at the end of this 
section starting at Section H, paragraph 154.  
B. Mechanics of the IRB approach 
4. In Section 1 that follows, the asset classes (eg  corporate exposures and retail exposures) eligible 
for the IRB approach are defined. Section 2 provides a description of the risk components to be used by 
banks by asset class. Section 3 discusses a bank’s adoption of the IRB approach at the asset class level and 
the related roll-out requirements. In cases where an IRB treatment is not specified, the risk weight for those 
other exposures is 100%, except when a 0% risk weight applies under the standardised approach, and the 
resulting risk-weighted assets are assumed to represent UL only. 
1. Categorisation of exposures 
5. Under the IRB approach, banks must categorise banking -book exposures into broad classes of 
assets with different underlying risk characteristics, subject to the definitions set out below. The classes of 
assets are (a) corporate, (b) sovereign, (c) bank, (d) retail, and (e) equity. Within the corporate asset class, 
five sub-classes of specialised lending are separately ident ified. Within the retail asset class, three sub -
classes are separately identified. Within the corporate and retail asset classes, a distinct treatment for 
purchased receivables may also apply provided certain conditions are met. For the equity asset class the 
IRB approach is not permitted, as outlined further below. 
 
1  References to the Basel II framework (June 2006) are to the comprehensive version available at: www.bis.org/publ/bcbs128.pdf.

[Page 58]
54 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
6. The classification of exposures in this way is broadly consistent with established bank practice. 
However, some banks may use different definitions in their internal risk management and measurement 
systems. While it is not the intention of the Committee to require banks to change the way in which they 
manage their business and risks, banks are required to apply the appropriate treatment to each exposure 
for the purposes of deriving their minim um capital requirement. Banks must demonstrate to supervisors 
that their methodology for assigning exposures to different classes is appropriate and consistent over 
time.  
7. For the treatment of securitisation exposures, see the Committee’s Revisions to the securitisation 
framework.2  
(i) Definition of corporate exposures 
8. In general, a corporate exposure is defined as a debt obligation of a corporation, partnership, or 
proprietorship. Banks are permitted to distinguish separately exposures to small- and medium-sized 
entities (SME), as defined in paragraph 54.  
9. In addition to general corporates, within the corporate asset class, five sub-classes of specialised 
lending (SL) are identified. Such lending possesses all the following characteristics, either  in legal form or 
economic substance: 
• The exposure is typically to an entity (often a special purpose entity (SPE)) which was created 
specifically to finance and/or operate physical assets;  
• The borrowing entity has little or no other material assets or activities, and therefore little or no 
independent capacity to repay the obligation, apart from the income that it receives from the 
asset(s) being financed;  
• The terms of the obligation give the lender a substantial degree of control over the asset(s) and 
the income that it generates; and  
• As a result of the preceding factors, the primary source of repayment of the obligation is the 
income generated by the asset(s), rather than the independent capacity of a broader commercial 
enterprise.  
10. The five sub-classes of specialised lending (SL) are project finance, object finance, commodities 
finance, income-producing real estate, and high-volatility commercial real estate. Each of these sub-classes 
is defined below. 
Project finance 
11. Project finance (PF) is a method of funding in which the lender looks primarily to the revenues 
generated by a single project, both as the source of repayment and as security for the exposure. This type 
of financing is usually for large, complex and expensive installations that might include, for example, power 
plants, chemical processing plants, mines, transportation infrastructure, environment, and 
telecommunications infrastructure. Project finance may take the form of financing of the construction of 
a new capital installation, or refinancing of an existing installation, with or without improvements.  
12. In such transactions, the lender is usually paid solely or almost exclusively out of the money 
generated by the contracts for the facility’s output, such as the electricity sold by a power plant. The 
borrower is usually an SPE that is not permitted to perform any function other than developing, owning, 
and operating the installation. The consequence is that repayment depends primarily on the project’s cash 
flow and on the collateral value of the project’s assets. In contrast, if repayment of the exposure depends 
 
2  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Revisions to the securitisation framework , 11 December 2014 (revised July 2016), 
www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d374.pdf.

[Page 59]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 55 
 
 
primarily on a well-established, diversified, credit-worthy, contractually obligated end user for repayment, 
it is considered a secured exposure to that end-user.  
Object finance 
13. Object finance (OF) refers to a method of funding the acquisition of physical assets (eg ships, 
aircraft, satellites, railcars, and fleets) where the repayment of the exposure is dependent on the cash flows 
generated by the specific assets that have been financed and pledged or assigned to the lender. A primary 
source of these cash flows might be rental or lease contracts with one or several third parties. In contrast, 
if the exposure is to a borrower whose financial condition and debt -servicing capacity enables it to repay 
the debt without undue reliance on the specifically pledged assets, the exposure should be treated as a 
collateralised corporate exposure.  
Commodities finance 
14. Commodities finance (CF) refers to structured short-term lending to finance reserves, inventories, 
or receivables of exchange -traded commodities (eg crude oil, metals, or crops), where the exposure will 
be repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the commodity and the borrower has no independent capacity 
to repay the exposure. This is the case when the borrower has no other activities and no other material 
assets on its balance sheet. The structured nature of the financing is designed to compensate for the weak 
credit quality of the borrower. The exposure’s rating reflects its self-liquidating nature and the lender’s skill 
in structuring the transaction rather than the credit quality of the borrower.  
15. The Committee believes that such lending can be distinguished from exposures financing the 
reserves, inventories, or receivables of other more diversified corporate borrowers. Banks are able to rate 
the credit quality of the latter type of borrowers based on their broader ongoing operations. In such cases, 
the value of the commodity serves as a risk mitigant rather than as the primary source of repayment.  
Income-producing real estate 
16. Income-producing real estate (IPRE) refers to a method of providing funding to real estate (such 
as, office buildings to let, retail space, multifamily residential buildings, industrial or warehouse space, and 
hotels) where the prospects for repayment and recovery on the exposure depend primarily on the cash 
flows generated by the asset. The primary source of these cash flows would generally be lease or rental 
payments or the sale of the asset. The borrower may be, but is not required to be, an SPE, an operating 
company focused on real estate construction or holdings, or an operating company with sources of 
revenue other than real estate. The distinguishing characteristic of IPRE versus o ther corporate exposures 
that are collateralised by real estate is the strong positive correlation between the prospects for repayment 
of the exposure and the prospects for recovery in the event of default, with both depending primarily on 
the cash flows generated by a property. 
High-volatility commercial real estate  
17. High-volatility commercial real estate (HVCRE) lending is the financing of commercial real estate 
that exhibits higher loss rate volatility (ie higher asset correlation) compared to other types of SL. 
HVCRE includes:  
• Commercial real estate exposures secured by properties of types that are categorised by the 
national supervisor as sharing higher volatilities in portfolio default rates;  
• Loans financing any of the land acquisition, developme nt and construction (ADC) phases for 
properties of those types in such jurisdictions; and  
• Loans financing ADC of any other properties where the source of repayment at origination of the 
exposure is either the future uncertain sale of the property or cash flows whose source of 
repayment is substantially uncertain (eg the property has not yet been leased to the occupancy

[Page 60]
56 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
rate prevailing in that geographic market for that type of commercial real estate), unless the 
borrower has substantial equity at risk. Com mercial ADC loans exempted from treatment as 
HVCRE loans on the basis of certainty of repayment of borrower equity are, however, ineligible 
for the additional reductions for SL exposures described in paragraph 58. 
18. Where supervisors categorise certain types of commercial real estate exposures as HVCRE in their 
jurisdictions, they are required to make public such determinations. Other supervisors need to ensure that 
such treatment is then applied equally to banks under their supervision when making such H VCRE loans 
in that jurisdiction. 
(ii) Definition of sovereign exposures 
19. This asset class covers all exposures to counterparties treated as sovereigns under the 
standardised approach. This includes sovereigns (and their central banks), certain PSEs iden tified as 
sovereigns in the standardised approach, MDBs that meet the criteria for a 0% risk weight and referred to 
in footnote 11 of the standardised approach, and the entities referred to in paragraph 10 of the 
standardised approach. The treatment of sovereign exposures is unchanged from the Basel II framework 
(June 2006). 
(iii) Definition of bank exposures 
20. This asset class covers exposures to banks as defined in paragraph 16 of the standardised 
approach for credit risk and those securities firms and other financial institutions set out in paragraph 37 
of the standardised approach for credit risk that are treated as exposures to banks. Bank exposures also 
include claims on all domestic PSEs that are not treated as exposures to sovereigns under the standardised 
approach, and MDBs that do not meet the criteria for a 0% risk weight under the standardised approach  
(ie MDBs that are not listed in footnote 11 of the standardised approach).  
(iv) Definition of retail exposures 
21. An exposure is categorised as a retail exposure if it meets all of the following criteria: 
Nature of borrower or low value of individual exposures 
• Exposures to individuals – such as revolving credits and lines of credit (eg credit cards, overdrafts, 
and retail facilities secured by financial instruments) as well as personal term loans and leases (eg 
instalment loans, auto loans and leases, student and educational loans, personal finance, and 
other exposures with similar characteristics) – are generally eligible for retail treatment regardless 
of exposure size, although supervisors may wish to establish exposure thresholds to distinguish 
between retail and corporate exposures.  
• Residential mortgage loans3 (including first and subsequent liens, term loans and revolving home 
equity lines of credit) are eligible for retail treatment regardless of exposure size so long as the 
credit is: 
(i)  an exposure to an individual;4 or 
(ii)  an exposure to associations or cooperatives of individuals that are regulated under 
national law and exist with the only purpose of granting its members the use of a 
primary residence in the property securing the loan. 
 
3  Loans that meet the conditions set out in footnot e 35 of paragraph 60 of the standardised approach for credit risk are also 
eligible to be included in the IRB retail residential mortgage sub-class. 
4  At national discretion, supervisors may exclude from the retail residential mortgage sub -asset class loans to individuals that 
have mortgaged more than a specified number of properties or housing units, and treat such loans as corporate exposures.

[Page 61]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 57 
 
 
• Loans extended to small businesses and managed as retail exposures are eligible for retail 
treatment provided the total exposure of the banking group  to a small business borrower (on a 
consolidated basis where applicable) is less than €1  million. Small business loans extended 
through or guaranteed by an individual are subject to the same exposure threshold.  
• It is expected that supervisors provide flexibility in the practical application of such thresholds 
such that banks are not forced to develop extensive new information systems simply for the 
purpose of ensuring perfect compliance. It is, however, important for supervisors to ensure that 
such flexibility (and the implied acceptance of exposure amounts in excess of the thresholds that 
are not treated as violations) is not being abused. 
Large number of exposures 
22. The exposure must be one of a large pool of exposures, which are managed by the bank on a 
pooled basis.  
• Small business exposures below €1 million may be treated as retail exposures if the bank treats 
such exposures in its internal risk management systems consistently over time and in the same 
manner as other retail exposures. This requires t hat such an exposure be originated in a similar 
manner to other retail exposures. Furthermore, it must not be managed individually in a way 
comparable to corporate exposures, but rather as part of a portfolio segment or pool of 
exposures with similar risk characteristics for purposes of risk assessment and quantification. 
However, this does not preclude retail exposures from being treated individually at some stages 
of the risk management process. The fact that an exposure is rated individually does not by itself 
deny the eligibility as a retail exposure. 
23. Within the retail asset class category, banks are required to identify separately three sub -classes 
of exposures: (a) residential mortgage loans, as defined above, (b) qualifying revolving retail exposures, as 
defined in the following paragraph, and (c) all other retail exposures. 
(v) Definition of qualifying revolving retail exposures 
24. All of the following criteria must be satisfied for a sub- portfolio to be treated as a qualifying 
revolving retail exposure (QRRE). These criteria must be applied at a sub-portfolio level consistent with the 
bank’s segmentation of its retail activities generally. Segmentation at the national or country level (or 
below) should be the general rule. 
(a) The exposures are revol ving, unsecured, and uncommitted (both contractually and in practice). 
In this context, revolving exposures are defined as those where customers’ outstanding balances 
are permitted to fluctuate based on their decisions to borrow and repay, up to a limit established 
by the bank.  
(b) The exposures are to individuals. 
(c) The maximum exposure to a single individual in the sub-portfolio is €100,000 or less. 
(d) Because the asset correlation assumptions for the QRRE risk-weight function are markedly below 
those for the other retail risk-weight function at low PD values, banks must demonstrate that the 
use of the QRRE risk-weight function is constrained to portfolios that have exhibited low volatility 
of loss rates, relative to their average level of loss rates, especially w ithin the low PD bands. 
Supervisors will review the relative volatility of loss rates across the QRRE subportfolios, as well 
as the aggregate QRRE portfolio, and intend to share information on the typical characteristics 
of QRRE loss rates across jurisdictions. 
(e) Data on loss rates for the sub-portfolio must be retained in order to allow analysis of the volatility 
of loss rates.

[Page 62]
58 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(f) The supervisor must concur that treatment as a qualifying revolving retail exposure is consistent 
with the underlying risk characteristics of the sub-portfolio. 
25.  The QRRE sub-class is split into exposures to transactors and revolvers. A QRRE transactor is an 
exposure to an obligor that meets the definition set out in paragraph 56 of the standardised approach. 
That is, the exposure is to an obligor in relation to a facility such as credit card or charge card where the 
balance has been repaid in full at each scheduled repayment date for the previous 12 months, or the 
exposure is in relation to an overdraft facility if there have been  no drawdowns over the previous 12 
months. All exposures that are not QRRE transactors are QRRE revolvers. 
(vi) Definition of equity exposures  
26. This asset class covers exposures to equities as defined in paragraph 49 of the standardised 
approach for credit risk. 
(vii) Definition of eligible purchased receivables  
27. Eligible purchased receivables are divided into retail and corporate receivables as defined below.  
Retail receivables 
28. Purchased retail receivables, provided the purchasing bank complies with the IRB rules for retail 
exposures, are eligible for the top -down approach as permitted within the existing standards for retail 
exposures. The bank must also apply the minimum operational requirements as set forth in Sections F and 
H. 
Corporate receivables 
29. In general, for purchased corporate receivables, banks are expected to assess the default risk of 
individual obligors as specified in Section C.1 (starting with paragraph 52) consistent with the treatment 
of other corporate exposures. However, the top -down approach may be used, provided that the 
purchasing bank’s programme for corporate receivables complies with both the criteria for eligible 
receivables and the minimum opera tional requirements of this approach. The use of the top -down 
purchased receivables treatment is limited to situations where it would be an undue burden on a bank to 
be subjected to the minimum requirements for the IRB approach to corporate exposures that would 
otherwise apply. Primarily, it is intended for receivables that are purchased for inclusion in asset -backed 
securitisation structures, but banks may also use this approach, with the approval of national supervisors, 
for appropriate on-balance sheet exposures that share the same features. 
30. Supervisors may deny the use of the top -down approach for purchased corporate receivables 
depending on the bank’s compliance with minimum requirements. In particular, to be eligible for the 
proposed ‘top-down’ treatment, purchased corporate receivables must satisfy the following conditions:  
• The receivables are purchased from unrelated, third party sellers, and as such the bank has not 
originated the receivables either directly or indirectly.

[Page 63]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 59 
 
 
• The receivables must be generated on an arm’s-length basis between the seller and the obligor. 
(As such, intercompany accounts receivable and receivables subject to contra-accounts between 
firms that buy and sell to each other are ineligible. 5)  
• The purchasing bank has a claim on all proceeds from the pool of receivables or a pro -rata 
interest in the proceeds.6 
• National supervisors must also establish concentration limits above which capital charges must 
be calculated using the minimum requirements for the bottom -up approach for  corporate 
exposures. Such concentration limits may refer to one or a combination of the following 
measures: the size of one individual exposure relative to the total pool, the size of the pool of 
receivables as a percentage of regulatory capital, or the maximum size of an individual exposure 
in the pool. 
31. The existence of full or partial recourse to the seller does not automatically disqualify a bank from 
adopting this top-down approach, as long as the cash flows from the purchased corporate receivables are 
the primary protection against default risk as determined by the rules in paragraphs 132 to 135 for 
purchased receivables and the bank meets the eligibility criteria and operational requirements.  
2. Foundation and advanced approaches  
32. For each of the asset classes covered under the IRB framework, there are three key elements:  
• Risk components: estimates of risk parameters provided by banks, some of which are supervisory 
estimates. 
• Risk-weight functions: the means by which risk components are transformed into risk -weighted 
assets and therefore capital requirements. 
• Minimum requirements: the minimum standards that must be met in order for a bank to use the 
IRB approach for a given asset class.  
33. For many of the asset classes, the Committee has made available two broad approaches: a 
foundation and an advanced approach. Under the foundation approach (F -IRB approach), as a general 
rule, banks provide their own estimates of PD and rely on supervisory estimates for other risk components. 
Under the advanced approach (A-IRB approach), banks provide more of their own estimates of PD, LGD 
and EAD, and their own calculation of M, subject to meeting minimum standards. For both the foundation 
and advanced approaches, banks must always use the risk- weight functions provided in this Framework 
for the purpose of deriving capital requirements. The full suite of approaches is described below.  
34. For exposures to equities, defined in paragraph 26 above, the IRB approaches are not permitted  
(see paragraph 42). In addition, the A-IRB approach cannot be used for the following: 
(i) Exposures to general corporates belonging to a group with total consolidated annual revenues 
greater than €500m. 
(ii) Exposures in the bank asset class (paragraph 20), and other securities firms and finan cial 
institutions (including insurance companies and any other financial institutions in the corporate 
asset class). 
In making the assessment above for the revenue threshold, the amounts must be as reported in 
the audited financial statements of the corporates or, for corporates that are part of consolidated groups, 
 
5 Contra-accounts involve a customer buying from and selling to the same firm. The risk is that debts may be set tled through 
payments in kind rather than cash. Invoices between the companies may be offset against each other instead of being paid. 
This practice can defeat a security interest when challenged in court.  
6 Claims on tranches of the proceeds (first loss position, second loss position, etc) would fall under the securitisation treatment.

[Page 64]
60 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
their consolidated groups (according to the accounting standard applicable to the ultimate parent of the 
consolidated group). The figures must be based on the average amounts calculated over the prior three 
years, or on the latest amounts updated every three years by the bank. 
(i) Corporate and bank exposures 
35. Under the foundation approach, banks must provide their own estimates of PD associated with 
each of their borrower grades, but must use supervisory estimates for the other relevant risk components. 
The other risk components are LGD, EAD and M.7 
36. Under the advanced approach, banks must calculate the effective maturity (M)8 and provide their 
own estimates of PD, LGD and EAD.  
37. There is an exception to this general rule for the five sub-classes of assets identified as SL.  
The SL categories: PF, OF, CF, IPRE and HVCRE 
38. Banks that do not meet the requirements for the estimation of PD under the corporate foundation 
approach for their SL exposures are required to map their internal risk grades to five supervisory 
categories, each of which is associated with a specific risk weight. This version is termed the ‘supervisory 
slotting criteria approach’. 
39. Banks that meet the requirem ents for the estimation of PD are able to use the foundation 
approach to corporate exposures to derive risk weights for all classes of SL exposures except HVCRE. At 
national discretion, banks meeting the requirements for HVCRE exposure are able to use a fo undation 
approach that is similar in all respects to the corporate approach, with the exception of a separate risk -
weight function as described in paragraph 64. 
40. Banks that meet the requirements for the estimation of PD, LGD and EAD are able to use the 
advanced approach to corporate exposures to derive risk weights for all classes of SL exposures except 
HVCRE. At national discretion, banks meeting these requirements for HVCRE exposure are able to use an 
advanced approach that is similar in all respects t o the corporate approach, with the exception of a 
separate risk-weight function as described in paragraph 64. 
(ii) Retail exposures 
41. For retail exposures, banks must provide their own estimates of PD, LGD and EAD. There is no 
foundation approach for this asset class.  
(iii) Equity exposures 
42. All equity exposures are subject to the standardised approach set out in paragraph 50 9 of the 
standardised approach for credit risk, with the exception of equity investments in funds that are subject 
to the requirements set out in the standard published by the Basel Committee in December 2013. 10  
 
7  As noted in paragraph 107, some supervisors may require banks using the foundation approach to calculate M using the 
definition provided in paragraphs 109 to 114. 
8  At the discretion of the national supervisor, certain domestic exposures may be exempt from the calculation of M (see 
paragraph 108). 
9  The prohibition on the use of the IRB approach for equity exposures will be subject to a five-year linear phase-in arrangement 
from the date of implementation of this standard. During the phase-in period, the risk weight for equity exposures will be the 
greater of: (i) the risk weight as calculated under the IRB approach; and (ii) the risk weight set for the linear phase-in 
arrangement under the standardised approach for credit risk (see paragraph 50 footnote 29 of the standardised approach). 
Alternatively, supervisory authorities may require banks to apply the fully phased-in standardised approach treatment from the 
date of implementation of this standard. 
10  Final standards on capital requirements for banks’ equity investments in funds are available at www.bis.org/publ/bcbs266.pdf.

[Page 65]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 61 
 
 
(iv) Eligible purchased receivables 
43. The treatment potentially straddles two asset classes. For eligible corporate receivables, both a 
foundation and advanced approach are available subject to certain operational requirements being met. 
As noted in paragraph 29, for corporate purchased receivables banks are in general expected to  assess 
the default risk of individual obligors. The bank may use the A -IRB treatment for purchased corporate 
receivables (paragraphs 134 and 135) only for exposures to individual corporate obligors that are eligible 
for the A-IRB approach according to paragraph 34. Otherwise, the F-IRB treatment for purchased corporate 
receivables should be used. For eligible retail receivables, as with the retail asset class, only the A -IRB 
approach is available.  
3. Adoption of the IRB approach for asset classes  
44. Onc e a bank adopts an IRB approach for part of its holdings within an asset class, it is expected 
to extend it across all holdings within that asset class. In this context, the relevant assets classes are as 
follows:  
• Banks 
• Corporates (excluding specialised lending and purchased receivables) 
• Specialised lending 
• Corporate purchased receivables 
• Qualifying revolving retail exposures 
• Retail residential mortgages 
• Other retail (excluding purchased receivables) 
• Retail purchased receivables 
The Committee recognises h owever, that, for many banks, it may not be practicable for various 
reasons to implement the IRB approach for an entire asset class across all business units at the same time. 
Furthermore, once on IRB, data limitations may mean that banks can meet the stan dards for the use of 
own estimates of LGD and EAD for some but not all of their exposures within an asset classes at the same 
time (for example, exposures that are in the same asset class, but are in different business units).  
45. As such, supervisors may allow banks to adopt a phased rollout of the IRB approach across an 
asset class. The phased rollout includes: (i) adoption of IRB across the asset class within the same business 
unit; (ii) adoption of IRB for the asset class across business units in the same banking group; and (iii) move 
from the foundation approach to the advanced approach for certain risk components where use of the 
advanced approach is permitted. However, when a bank adopts an IRB approach for an asset class within 
a particular business unit, it must apply the IRB approach to all exposures within that asset class in that 
unit.  
46. If a bank intends to adopt an IRB approach to an asset class, it must produce an implementation 
plan, specifying to what extent and when it intends to roll out  the IRB approaches within the asset class 
and business units. The plan should be realistic, and must be agreed with the supervisor. It should be 
driven by the practicality and feasibility of moving to the more advanced approaches, and not motivated 
by a d esire to adopt a Pillar 1 approach that minimises its capital charge. During the roll- out period, 
supervisors will ensure that no capital relief is granted for intra- group transactions which are designed to 
reduce a banking group’s aggregate capital charge  by transferring credit risk among entities on the 
standardised approach, foundation and advanced IRB approaches. This includes, but is not limited to, asset 
sales or cross guarantees.

[Page 66]
62 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
47. Some exposures that are immaterial in terms of size and perceived risk profile within their asset 
class may be exempt from the requirements in the previous two paragraphs, subject to supervisory 
approval. Capital requirements for such operations will be de termined according to the standardised 
approach, with the national supervisor determining whether a bank should hold more capital under Pillar 2 
for such positions.  
48. Banks adopting an IRB approach for an asset class are expected to continue to employ an IRB 
approach for that asset class. A voluntary return to the standardised or foundation approach is permitted 
only in extraordinary circumstances, such as divestiture of a large fraction of the bank’s credit -related 
business in that asset class, and must be approved by the supervisor. 
49. Given the data limitations associated with SL exposures, a bank may remain on the supervisory 
slotting criteria approach for one or more of the PF, OF, CF, IPRE or HVCRE sub -classes, and move to the 
foundation or advanced approach for the other sub -classes. However, a bank should not move to the 
advanced approach for the HVCRE sub-class without also doing so for material IPRE exposures at the same 
time. 
50. Irrespective of the materiality, exposures to CCPs arising from OTC derivatives, exchange traded 
derivatives transactions and SFTs must be treated according to the dedicated treatment laid down in 
Section XI of the counterparty credit risk standards.  
C. Rules for corporate and bank exposures 
51. Section C presents the method of calculating the unexpected loss (UL) capital requirements for 
corporate and bank exposures. As discussed in Section C.1, a single risk- weight function is provided for 
determining the capital requirement for corporate and bank exposures. Superviso ry risk weights are 
provided for each of the specialised lending sub-classes of corporates, and a separate risk-weight function 
is also provided for HVCRE. Section C.2 discusses the risk components. The method of calculating expected 
losses, and for determining the difference between that measure and provisions is described in Section G. 
1. Risk-weighted assets for corporate and bank exposures 
(i) Formula for derivation of risk-weighted assets for corporate and bank exposures 
52. The derivation of risk -weighted assets is dependent on estimates of the PD, LGD, EAD and, in 
some cases, effective maturity (M), for a given exposure.  
53. Throughout this section, PD and LGD are measured as decimals, and EAD is measured as currency 
(eg euros), except where explicit ly noted otherwise. For exposures not in default, the formula for 
calculating risk-weighted assets is:11, 12 
 
11  ln denotes the natural logarithm.  
12  N(x) denotes the cumulative distribution function for a standard normal random variable (ie the probability that a normal 
random variable with mean zero and variance of one is less than or equal to x). G(z) denotes the inverse cumulative distribution

[Page 67]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 63 
 
 
Correlation (R) = ( )
( )
( )
( )
50 50
50 50
11
0.12 0.24 1
11
PD PDee
ee
−⋅ −⋅
−−
−− ⋅ + ⋅− −− 
 
Maturity adjustment (b) = ( )
2
0.11852 0.05478 ln PD −⋅  
Capital requirement13,14(K) = ( )
( ) ( ) ( )( )
( )
1 2.5
0.9991 1 1.51
MbG PD RLGD N G PD LGDR bR
  +− ⋅ ⋅ + ⋅ −⋅ ⋅  − −⋅− 
 
Risk-weighted assets (RWA) = 12.5K EAD⋅⋅   
The capital requirement (K) for a defaulted exposure is equal to the greater of zero and the difference 
between its LGD (described in paragraph 235) and the bank’s best estimate of expected loss (described in 
paragraph 238). The risk-weighted asset amount for the defaulted exposure is the product of K, 12.5, and 
the EAD. 
A multiplier of 1.25 is applied to the correlation parameter of all exposures to financial institutions 
meeting the following criteria: 
• Regulated financial institutions whose total assets are greater than or equal to US $100 billion. 
The most recent audited financial statement of the parent company and consolidated subsidiaries 
must be used in order to determine asset size. For the p urpose of this paragraph, a regulated 
financial institution is defined as a parent and its subsidiaries where any substantial legal entity 
in the consolidated group is supervised by a regulator that imposes prudential requirements 
consistent with international norms. These include, but are not limited to, prudentially regulated 
Insurance Companies, Broker/Dealers, Banks, Thrifts and Futures Commission Merchants;  
• Unregulated financial institutions, regardless of size. Unregulated financial institutions are, for the 
purposes of this paragraph, legal entities whose main business includes: the management of 
financial assets, lending, factoring, leasing, provision of credit enhancements, securitisation, 
investments, financial custody, central counterparty service s, proprietary trading and other 
financial services activities identified by supervisors. 
• Correlation (R_FI) = ( )
( )
( )
( )
50 50
50 50
11
1.25 0.12 0.24 1
11
PD PDee
ee
−⋅ −⋅
−−
 −− ⋅ ⋅ + ⋅− −− 
 
Illustrative risk weights are shown in Annex 5 of the Basel II framework (June 2006). 
 
function for a standard normal random variable (ie the valu e of x such that N(x)  = z). The normal cumulative distribution 
function and the inverse of the normal cumulative distribution function are, for example, available in Excel as the functions  
NORMSDIST and NORMSINV. 
13  If this calculation results in a negative capital charge for any individual sovereign exposure, banks should apply a zero capital 
charge for that exposure.  
14  The following terms are used to refer to specific parts of the capital requirements formula: 
• Full maturity adjustment = 
( )( )
( )
1 2.5
1 1.5
Mb
b
+− ⋅
−⋅   
• Explicit maturity adjustment = ( )( )1 2.5Mb+− ⋅   
• M is the effective maturity, calculated according to paragraphs 107 to 114

[Page 68]
64 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(ii) Firm-size adjustment for small- and medium-sized entities (SME) 
54. Under the IRB approach for corporate credits, banks will be permitted to separately distinguish 
exposures to SME borrowers (defined as corporate exposures where the reported sales for the 
consolidated group of which the firm is a part is less than €50 million) from those to large firms. A firm-
size adjustment (ie 0.04 x (1 – (S – 5) / 45)) is made to the corporate risk weight formula for exposures to 
SME borrowers. S is expressed as total annual sales in millions of euros with values of S falling in the range 
of equal to or less than €50  million or greater than or equal to €5  million. Reported sales of less than 
€5 million will be treated as if they were equivalent to €5  million for the purposes of the firm -size 
adjustment for SME borrowers.  
Correlation (R) = ( )
( )
( )
( )
( )
50 50
50 50
11 5
0.12 0.24 1 0.04 1 4511
PD PDee S
ee
−⋅ −⋅
−−
 −− − ⋅ + ⋅− − ⋅− −− 
 
55. Subject to national discretion, supervisors may allow banks, as a failsafe, to substitute total assets 
of the consolidated group for total sales in calculating the SME threshold and the firm -size adjustment. 
However, total assets should be used only when total sales are not a meaningful indicator of firm size. 
(iii) Risk weights for specialised lending  
Risk weights for PF, OF, CF and IPRE 
56. Banks that do not meet the requiremen ts for the estimation of PD under the corporate IRB 
approach will be required to map their internal grades to five supervisory categories, each of which is 
associated with a specific risk weight. The slotting criteria on which this mapping must be based ar e 
provided in Annex 6  of the Basel II framework (June 2006). The risk weights for unexpected losses 
associated with each supervisory category are:  
Supervisory categories and UL risk weights for other SL exposures 
Strong Good Satisfactory Weak Default 
70% 90% 115% 250% 0% 
 
57. Although banks are expected to map their internal ratings to the supervisory categories for 
specialised lending using the slotting criteria provided in Annex 6  of the Basel II framework (June 2006), 
each supervisory category broadly corresponds to a range of external credit assessments as outlined 
below.  
Strong Good Satisfactory Weak Default 
BBB- or better BB+ or BB BB- or B+ B to C- Not applicable 
 
58. At national discretion, supervisors may allow banks to assign preferential risk weights of 50% to 
“strong” exposures, and 70% to “good” exposures, provided they have a remaining maturity of less than 
2.5 years or the supervisor determines that banks’ underwriting and other risk characteristics are 
substantially stronger than specified in the slotting criteria for the relevant supervisory risk category.  
59. Banks that meet the requirements for the estimation of PD will be able to use the F-IRB approach 
for the corporate asset class to derive risk weights for SL sub-classes. 
60. Banks that meet the requirements for the estimation of PD and LGD and EAD  (where relevant) 
will be able to use the A -IRB approach for the corporate asset class to derive risk weights for SL sub -
classes.

[Page 69]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 65 
 
 
Risk weights for HVCRE 
61. Banks that do not meet the requirements for estimation of PD, or whose supervisor has chosen 
not to implement the foundation or advanced approaches to HVCRE, must map their internal grades to 
five supervisory categories, each of which is associated wit h a specific risk weight. The slotting criteria on 
which this mapping must be based are the same as those for IPRE, as provided in Annex 6  of the Basel II 
framework (June 2006). The risk weights associated with each supervisory category are: 
Supervisory categories and UL risk weights for high-volatility commercial real estate 
Strong Good Satisfactory Weak Default 
95% 120% 140% 250% 0% 
 
62. As indicated in paragraph 57, each supervisory category broadly corresponds to a range of 
external credit assessments.  
63. At national discretion, supervisors may allow banks to assign preferential risk weights of 70% to 
“strong” exposures, and 95% to “good” exposures, provided they  have a remaining maturity of less than 
2.5 years or the supervisor determines that banks’ underwriting and other risk characteristics are 
substantially stronger than specified in the slotting criteria for the relevant supervisory risk category.  
64. Banks that meet the requirements for the estimation of PD and whose supervisor has chosen to 
implement a foundation or advanced approach to HVCRE exposures will use the same formula for the 
derivation of risk weights that is used for other SL exposures, except that they will apply the following 
asset correlation formula: 
Correlation (R) = ( )
( )
( )
( )
50 50
50 50
11
0.12 0. 30 1
11
PD PDee
ee
−⋅ −⋅
−−
−− ⋅ + ⋅− −− 
 
65. Banks that do not meet the requirements for estimation of LGD and EAD for HVCRE exposures 
must use the supervisory parameters for LGD and EAD for corporate exposures. 
2. Risk components  
66.  This section, paragraphs 67 to 115, sets out the calculation of the risk components for corporate 
and bank exposures. In the case of an exposure that is guaranteed by a sovereign, the floors that apply to 
the risk components do not apply to that part of the exposure covered by the sovereign guarantee (ie any 
part of the exposure that is not covered by the guarantee is subject to the relevant floors). 
(i) Probability of default (PD) 
67. For corporate and bank ex posures, the PD is the one -year PD associated with the internal 
borrower grade to which that exposure is assigned. The PD of borrowers assigned to a default grade(s), 
consistent with the reference definition of default, is 100%. The minimum requirements for the derivation 
of the PD estimates associated with each internal borrower grade are outlined in paragraphs 229 to 231.  
68.  The PD for each exposure that is used as input into the risk weight formula and the calculation 
of expected loss must not be less than 0.05%.  
(ii) Loss given default (LGD) 
69. A bank must provide an estimate of the LGD for each corporate and bank exposure. There are 
two approaches for deriving this estimate: a foundation approach and an advanced approach. As noted in 
paragraph 34, the advanced approach is not permitted for exposures to certain entities.

[Page 70]
66 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
LGD under the foundation approach 
Treatment of unsecured claims and non-recognised collateral 
70. Under the foundation approach, senior claims on banks, securities firms and other fi nancial 
institutions (including insurance companies and any financial institutions in the corporate asset class) that 
are not secured by recognised collateral will be assigned a 45% LGD . Senior claims on other corporates 
that are not secured by recognised collateral will be assigned a 40% LGD. 
71. All subordinated claims on corporates and banks will be assigned a 75% LGD. A subordinated 
loan is a facility that is expressly subordinated to another facility. At national discretion, supervisors may 
choose to employ a wider definition of subordination. This might include economic subordination, such 
as cases where the facility is unsecured and the bulk of the borrower’s assets are used to secure other 
exposures. 
Collateral under the foundation approach  
72. In addition to the eligible financial collateral recognised in the standardised approach, under the 
foundation IRB approach some other forms of collateral, known as eligible IRB collateral, are also 
recognised. These include receivables, specified commercial a nd residential real estate  (CRE/RRE), and 
other physical collateral, where they meet the minimum requirements set out in paragraphs 283 to 299. 
For eligible financial collateral, the requirements are identical to the operational standards as set out in 
the credit risk mitigation section of the standardised approach.  
Methodology for recognition of eligible collateral under the foundation approach  
73. The simple approach to collateral presented in the standardised approach is not available to 
banks applying the IRB approach. 
74. The LGD applicable to a collateralised transaction (LGD*) must be calculated as the exposure 
weighted average of the LGD applicable to the unsecured part of an exposure (LGD U) and the LGD 
applicable to the collateralised part of an exposure (LGDS). Specifically: 
( ) ( )
*  
11
US
US
EE
EELGD LGD L GD
EH EH
= +
⋅
⋅
⋅+
⋅
+
 
where: 
• E is the current value of the exposure (ie cash lent or securities lent or posted). In the case of 
securities lent or posted the exposure value has to be increased by applying the appropriate 
haircuts (HE) according to the comprehensive approach for financial collateral. 
• ES is the current value of the collateral received after the application of the haircut applicable for 
the type of collateral (H c) and for any currency mismatches between the e xposure and the 
collateral, as specified in paragraphs 75 to 76. ES is capped at the value of ( )1 EEH⋅+ . 
• ( )1U ESEE H E=⋅+ − . The terms EU and ES are only used to calculate LGD*. Banks must continue 
to calculate EAD without taking into account the presence of any collateral, unless otherwise 
specified. 
• LGDU = the LGD applicable for an unsecured exposure, as set out in paragraph 70 to 71.  
• LGDS = the LGD applicable to exposures secured by the type of collateral used in the transaction, 
as specified in paragraph 75. 
75. The following table specifies the LGD S and haircuts applicable in the formula set out in 
paragraph 74:

[Page 71]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 67 
 
 
Type of collateral LGDS Haircut 
Eligible financial collateral 0% As determined by the haircuts that apply in the comprehensive 
formula of the standardised approach for credit risk (paragraph 163 
for jurisdictions that allow the use of ratings for regulatory purposes 
and paragraph 164 for jurisdictions that do not). 
The haircuts have to be adjusted for different holding periods and 
non-daily remargining or revaluation according to paragraphs 169 to 
172 of the standardised approach. 
Eligible receivables 20% 40% 
Eligible residential real estate / 
commercial real estate 
20% 40% 
Other eligible physical collateral 25% 40% 
Ineligible collateral N/A 100% 
 
76. When eligible collateral is denominated in a different currency to that of the exposure, the haircut 
for currency risk is the same haircut that applies in the comprehensive approach (paragraph 165 of the 
standardised approach). 
77. Banks that lend securities or post collateral must calculate capital requirements for both of the 
following: (i) the credit risk or market risk of the securities, if this remains with the bank; and (ii) the 
counterparty credit risk arising from the risk that the borrower of the securities may default. For repo-style 
transactions, banks may recognise a reduction in the counterparty credit risk requirement arising from the 
effect of a master netting agreement providing that it satisfies the criteria set out in paragraphs 175 and 
176 of the standardised approach . The bank must calculate E*, which is the exposure to be used for the 
counterparty credit risk charge taking account of the risk mitigation of collateral received, using the 
formula set out in paragraph 178 of the standardised  approach. In calculating RWA and EL amounts for 
the counterparty credit risk arising from the set of transactions covered by the master netting agreement, 
E* must be used as the EAD of the counterparty and the LGD of the counterparty must be determined 
using the LGD specified for unsecured exposures, as set out in paragraphs 70 and 71.  
Use of models to calculate EAD for counterparty credit risk 
78. As an alternative to the use of standard haircuts for the calculation of the counterparty credit risk 
charge for SFTs set out in paragraph 77, banks may be permitted to use a VaR models approach to reflect 
price volatility of the exposures and the financial collateral. This approach can take into account the 
correlation effects between security positions. This approach applies to single SFTs and SFTs covered by 
netting agreements on a counterparty-by-counterparty basis, both under the condition that the collateral 
is revalued on a daily basis. This holds for the underlying securities being different and unrelated  to 
securitisations. The master netting agreement must satisfy the criteria set out in paragraph 175 and 176 
of the standardised approach. The VaR models approach is available to banks that have received 
supervisory recognition for an internal market risk model according to paragraph 177 of “Minimum capital 
requirements for market risk”. Banks which have not received market risk model recognition can separately 
apply for supervisory recognition to use their internal VaR models for the calculation of potential price 
volatility for SFTs, provided the model meets the requirements of paragraph 177. Although the market risk 
standards have changed from a 99% VaR to a 97.5% expected shortfall, the VaR models approach to SFTs 
retains the use of a 99% VaR to calculat e the counterparty credit risk for SFTs. The VaR model needs to 
capture risk sufficient to pass the backtesting and profit and loss attribution tests of paragraph 183 of 
“Minimum capital requirements for market risk”. The default risk charge of paragraph 1 86 is not required 
in the VaR model for SFTs. 
79.  The quantitative and qualitative criteria for recognition of internal market risk models for SFTs 
are in principle the same as in paragraphs 180 and 181 of “Minimum capital requirements for market risk”. 
The minimum liquidity horizon or the holding period for SFTs is 5 -business days for margined repo-style

[Page 72]
68 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
transactions, rather than the 10-business days in paragraph 181 (k). For other transactions eligible for the 
VaR models approach, the 10-business day holding period will be retained. The minimum holding period 
should be adjusted upwards for market instruments where such a holding period would be inappropriate 
given the liquidity of the instrument concerned. 
80.  The calculation of the exposure E* for banks  using their internal model to calculate their 
counterparty credit risk charge will be the following: 
E* = max {0, [(ΣE – ΣC) + VaR output from internal model]} 
In calculating capital requirements banks will use the previous business day’s VaR number.  
81.  Subject to supervisory approval, instead of using the VaR approach, banks may also calculate an 
effective expected positive exposure for repo-style and other similar SFTs, in accordance with the Internal 
Model Method set out in the counterparty credit risk standards. 
Carve out from the comprehensive approach 
82. As in the standardised approach, for transactions where the conditions in paragraph 150 are met, 
and in addition, the counterparty is a core market participant as specified in paragraph 151, supervisors 
may choose not to apply the haircuts specified under the comprehensive approach, but instead to apply 
a zero H. A netting set that contains any transaction that does not meet the requirements in paragraph 
150 of the standardised approach is not eligible for this treatment. 
Methodology for the treatment of pools of collateral 
83. In the case where a bank has obtained multiple types of collateral it may apply the formula set 
out in paragraph 74 sequentially for each individual type of collateral. In doi ng so, after each step of 
recognising one individual type of collateral, the remaining value of the unsecured exposure (E U) will be 
reduced by the adjusted value of the collateral (E S) recognised in that step. In line with paragraph 74, the 
total of E S across all collateral types is capped at the value of ( ) EEH⋅+1 . This results in the following 
formula: 
( ) ( )
* S
S              
  1 1
Ui
Ui
iEE
EELGD LGD LGD
EH E H
⋅= +
⋅+ ⋅+
⋅∑  
where for each collateral type i: 
• LGDSi is the LGD applicable to that form of collateral (as specified in paragraph 75); and  
• ESi is the current value of the collateral received after the application of the haircut applicable for 
the type of collateral (Hc) (as specified in paragraph 75). 
LGD under the advanced approach 
84. Subject to certain additional minimum requirements specified below (and the conditions set out 
in paragraph 34), supervisors may permit banks to use their own internal estimates of LGD for corporate  
exposures. LGD must be measured as the loss given default as a percentage of the EAD. Banks eligible for 
the IRB approach that are unable to meet these additional minimum requirements must utilise the 
foundation LGD treatment described above.  
85.  The LGD for each exposure that is used as input into the risk weight formula and the calculation 
of expected loss must not be less than the parameter floors indicated in the table below:

[Page 73]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 69 
 
 
LGD parameter floors  
 LGD 
Unsecured Secured 
Corporate 25% Varying by collateral type: 
• 0% financial 
• 10% receivables 
• 10% commercial or residential real estate 
• 15% other physical 
 
86. The LGD floors for secured exposures in the table above apply when the exposure is fully secured 
(ie the value of collateral after the application of haircuts exceeds the value of the exposure). The LGD floor 
for a partially secured exposure is calculated as a weighted average of the unsecured LGD floor for the 
unsecured portion and the secured LGD floor for the secured portion. That is, the following formula should 
be used to determine the LGD floor: 
( ) ( )
                
11
US
U floor S floor
EE
EEFloor LGD L GD
EH EH
= +
⋅+ ⋅+
⋅⋅  
where: 
• LGDU floor  and LGD S floor  are the floor values for fully unsecured and fully secured exposures 
respectively, as specified in the table in paragraph 85.  
• The other terms are defined as set out in paragraph 74 and 75. 
87. In cases where a bank has met the conditions to use their own internal estimates of LGD for a 
pool of unsecured exposures, and takes collateral against one of these exposures, it may not be able to 
model the effects of the collateral (ie it may not have enough data to model the effect of the collateral on 
recoveries). In such cases, the bank is permitted to apply the formula set out in paragraph 74 or 83, with 
the exception that the LGD U term would be the bank’s own internal estimate of the unsecured LGD. To 
adopt this treatment the collateral must be eligible under the F-IRB and the bank’s estimate of LGDU must 
not take account of any effects of collateral recoveries.  
88. The minimum requirements for the derivation o f LGD estimates are outlined in paragraphs 235 
to 240. 
Treatment of certain repo-style transactions 
89. Banks that want to recognise the effects of master netting agreements on repo-style transactions 
for capital purposes must apply the methodology outline d in paragraph 77 for determining E* for use as 
the EAD in the calculation of counterparty credit risk. For banks using the advanced approach, own LGD 
estimates would be permitted for the unsecured equivalent amount (E*) used to calculate counterparty 
credit risk. In both cases banks, in addition to counterparty credit risk, must also calculate the capital 
requirements relating to any credit or market risk to which they remain exposed arising from the 
underlying securities in the master netting agreement.  
Treatment of guarantees and credit derivatives  
90. There are two approaches for recognition of CRM in the form of guarantees and credit derivatives 
in the IRB approach: a foundation approach for banks using supervisory values of LGD, and an advanced 
approach for those banks using their own internal estimates of LGD. 
91. Under either approach, CRM in the form of guarantees and credit derivatives must not reflect the 
effect of double default (see paragraph 254). As such, to the extent that the CRM is recogni sed by the

[Page 74]
70 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
bank, the adjusted risk weight will not be less than that of a comparable direct exposure to the protection 
provider. Consistent with the standardised approach, banks may choose not to recognise credit protection 
if doing so would result in a higher capital requirement.  
Recognition under the foundation approach 
92. For banks using the foundation approach for LGD, the approach to guarantees and credit 
derivatives closely follows the treatment under the standardised approach as specified  in paragraphs 191 
to 205 of the standardised approach . The range of eligible guarantors is the same as under the 
standardised approach except that companies that are internally rated may also be recognised under the 
foundation approach. To receive recognition, the requirements outlined in paragraphs 191 to 196 of the 
standardised approach must be met.  
93. Eligible guarantees from eligible guarantors will be recognised as follows:  
• For the covered portion of the exposure, a risk weight is derived by taking:  
− the risk-weight function appropriate to the type of guarantor, and  
− the PD appropriate to the guarantor’s borrower grade.  
• The bank may replace the LGD of the underlying transaction with the LGD applicable to the 
guarantee taking into account seniority and any co llateralisation of a guaranteed commitment. 
For example, when a bank has a subordinated claim on the borrower but the guarantee 
represents a senior claim on the guarantor this may be reflected by using an LGD applicable for 
senior exposures (see paragraph 70) instead of an LGD applicable for subordinated exposures.  
• In case the bank applies the standardised approach to direct exposures to the guarantor it may 
only recognise the guarantee by applying the standardised approach to the covered portion of 
the exposure. 
94. The uncovered portion of the exposure is assigned the risk weight associated with the underlying 
obligor. 
95. Where partial coverage exists, or where there is a currency mismatch between the underlying 
obligation and the credit protection, it is necessary to split the exposure into a covered and an uncovered 
amount. The treatment in the foundation approach follows that outlined in paragraphs 202 to 204 of the 
standardised approach, and depends upon whether the cover is proportional or tranched.  
Recognition under the advanced approach 
96. Banks using the advanced approach for estimating LGDs may reflect the risk-mitigating effect of 
guarantees and credit derivatives through either adjusting PD or LGD estimates. Whether adjustments are 
done through PD or LGD, they must be done in a consistent manner for a given guarantee or credit 
derivative type. In doing so, banks must not include the effect of double default in such adjustments. Thus, 
the adjusted risk weight must not be less than that of a comparable direct exposure to the protection 
provider. In case the bank applies the standardised approach to direct exposures to the guarantor it may 
only recognise the guarantee by applying the standardised approach to the covered portion of the 
exposure. In c ase the bank applies the foundation IRB approach to direct exposures to the guarantor it 
may only recognise the guarantee by determining the risk weight for the comparable direct exposure to 
the guarantor according to the foundation IRB approach. 
97. A bank relying on own-estimates of LGD has the option to adopt the treatment outlined above 
for banks under the foundation IRB approach (paragraphs 92 to 95), or to make an adjustment to its LGD 
estimate of the exposure to reflect the presence of the guarantee or credit derivative. Under this option, 
there are no limits to the range of eligible guarantors although the set of minimum requirements provided 
in paragraphs 256 and 257 concerning the type of guarantee must be satisfied. For credit derivatives, the

[Page 75]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 71 
 
 
requirements of paragraphs 262 and 263 must be satisfied. 15  For exposures for which a bank has 
permission to use its own estimates of LGD, the bank may recognise the risk mitigating effects of first-to-
default credit derivatives, but may not recognise the risk  mitigating effects of second-to-default or more 
generally nth-to-default credit derivatives. 
(iii) Exposure at default (EAD) 
98. The following sections apply to both on and off- balance sheet positions. All exposures are 
measured gross of specific provisions or partial write-offs. The EAD on drawn amounts should not be less 
than the sum of: (i) the amount by which a bank’s regulatory capital would be reduced if the exposure 
were written-off fully; and (ii) any specific provisions and partial write -offs. When the difference between 
the instrument’s EAD and the sum of (i) and (ii) is positive, this amount is termed a discount. The calculation 
of risk-weighted assets is independent of any discounts. Under the limited circumstances described in 
paragraph 147, discounts may be included in the measurement of total eligible provisions for purposes of 
the EL-provision calculation set out in Section G. 
Exposure measurement for on-balance sheet items 
99. On-balance sheet netting of loans and deposits will be recognised subject to the same conditions 
as under paragraph 190 of the standardised approach. Where currency or maturity mismatched on-
balance sheet netting exists, the treatment follows the standardised approach, as set out in paragraphs 
126 and 128 to 131. 
Exposure measurement for off-balance sheet items (with the exception of derivatives) 
100. For off-balance sheet items there are two approaches for the estimation of EAD: a foundation 
approach and an advanced approach. When only the drawn balances of revolving facilities have been 
securitised, banks must ensure that they continue to hold required capital against the undrawn balances 
associated with the securitised exposures. 
101. In the foundation approach, EAD is calculated as the committed but undrawn amount multiplied 
by a CCF. In the advanced approach, EAD for undrawn commitments may be calculated as the committed 
but undrawn amount multiplied by a CCF or derived from direct estimates of total facility EAD.  
EAD under the foundation approach  
102. The types of instruments and the CCFs applied to them are the same as those in the standardised 
approach, as set out in paragraphs 78 to 89.  
103. The amount to which the CCF is applied is the lower of the value of the unused committed credit 
line, and the value that reflects any possible constraining of the availability of the facility, such as the 
existence of a ceiling on the potential lending amount which is related to a borrower’s reported cash flow. 
If the facility is constrained in this way, the bank must have sufficient line monitoring and management 
procedures to support this contention. 
 
15  When credit derivatives do not cover the restructuring of the underlying obligation, the partial recognition set out in paragraph 
196 of the standardised approach applies.

[Page 76]
72 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
104. Where a commitment is obtained on another off -balance sheet exposure, banks under the 
foundation approach are to apply the lower of the applicable CCFs.  
EAD under the advanced approach 
105. Banks which meet the minimum requirements for use of their own estimates of EAD (see 
paragraphs 241 to 250) will be allowed for exposures for which A -IRB is permitted (see paragraph 34) to 
use their own internal estimates of EAD for undrawn revolving commitments 16 to extend credit, purchase 
assets or issue credit substitutes provided the exposure is not subject to a CCF of 100% in the foundation 
approach (see paragraph 102). Standardised approach CCFs must be used for all other off -balance sheet 
items (for example, undrawn non- revolving commitments), and must be used where the minimum 
requirements for own estimates of EAD are not met. The EAD for each exposure that is used a s input into 
the risk weight formula and the calculation of expected loss is subject to a floor that is the sum of: (i) the 
on balance sheet amount; and (ii) 50% of the off balance sheet exposure using the applicable CCF in the 
standardised approach.  
Exposure measurement for transactions that expose banks to counterparty credit risk  
106. Measures of exposure for SFTs and OTC derivatives that expose banks to counterparty credit risk 
under the IRB approach will be calculated as per the rules set forth in the counterparty credit risk standards.  
(iv) Effective maturity (M) 
107. For banks using the foundation approach for corporate exposures, effective maturity (M) will be 
2.5 years except for repo -style transactions where the effective maturity will be 6  months (ie M=0.5). 
National supervisors may choose to require all banks in their jurisdiction (those using the foundation and 
advanced approaches) to measure M for each facility using the definition provided below.   
108. Banks using any element of the advanced  IRB approach are required to measure effective 
maturity for each facility as defined below. However, national supervisors may allow the effective maturity 
to be fixed at 2.5 years (the ‘fixed maturity treatment’) for facilities to certain smaller domestic  corporate 
borrowers if the reported sales (ie turnover) as well as total assets for the consolidated group of which the 
firm is a part of are less than €500 million. The consolidated group has to be a domestic company based 
in the country where the fixed maturity treatment is applied. If adopted, national supervisors must apply 
the fixed maturity treatment to all IRB banks using the advanced approach in that country, rather than on 
a bank-by-bank basis.  
109. Except as noted in paragraph 110, the effective maturity (M) is subject to a floor of one year and 
a cap of 5 years and is defined as follows:  
• For an instrument subject to a determined cash flow schedule, effective maturity M is defined as: 
Effective maturity (M) = /tt
tt
t CF CF⋅∑∑  
where CFt denotes the cash flows (principal, interest payments and fees) contractually payable by 
the borrower in period t. 
• If a bank is not in a position to calculate the effective maturity of the contracted payments as 
noted above, it is allowed to use a more con servative measure of M such as that it equals the 
maximum remaining time (in years) that the borrower is permitted to take to fully discharge its 
 
16  A revolving loan facility is one that lets a borrower obtain a loan where the borrower has the flexibility to decide how often to 
withdraw from the loan and at what time intervals. A  revolving facility allows the borrower to drawdown, repay and re -draw 
loans advanced to it. Facilities that allow prepayments and subsequent redraws of those prepayments are considered as 
revolving.

[Page 77]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 73 
 
 
contractual obligation (principal, interest, and fees) under the terms of loan agreement. Normally, 
this will correspond to the nominal maturity of the instrument. 
• For derivatives subject to a master netting agreement, the effective maturity is defined as the 
weighted average maturity of the transactions within the netting agreement. Further, the notional 
amount of each transaction should be used for weighting the maturity. 
• For revolving exposures, effective maturity must be determined using the maximum contractual 
termination date of the facility. Banks must not use the repayment date of the current drawing.  
110. The one-year floor does not apply to certain short -term exposures, comprising fully or nearly -
fully collateralised 17  capital market -driven transactions (ie OTC derivatives transactions and margin 
lending) and repo -style transactions (ie repos/reverse repos and securities lending/borrowing) with an 
original maturity of less than one year, where the documentation contains daily remargining clauses. For 
all eligible transactions the documentation must require daily revaluation, and must include provisions 
that must allow for the prompt liquidation or setoff of the collateral in the event of default or failure to re-
margin. The maturity of such transactions must be calculated as the greater of one- day, and the effective 
maturity (M, consistent with the definition above), except for transactions subject to a master netting 
agreement, where the floor is determined by the minimum holding period for the transaction type, as 
required by paragraph 113. 
111. The one-year floor also does not apply to the following exposures: 
(i) Short-term self -liquidating trade transactions. Import and export letters of credit and similar 
transactions should be accounted for at their actual remaining maturity. 
(ii) Issued as well as confirmed letters of credit that are short term (ie have a maturity below one 
year) and self-liquidating. 
112. In addition to the transactions considered in paragraph 110 above, other short -term exposures 
with an original maturity of less than one year that are not part of a bank’s ongoing financing of an obligor 
may be eligible for exemption from the one -year floor. After a careful review of the particular 
circumstances in their jurisdictions, national supervisors should define the types of short -term exposures 
that might be considered eligible for this treatment. The results of these reviews might, for example, 
include transactions such as:  
• Some capital market -driven transactions and repo -style transactions that might not fall within 
the scope of paragraph 110;  
• Some trade finance transactions that are not exempted by paragraph 111. 
• Some exposures arising from settling securities purchases and sales. This could also include 
overdrafts arising from failed securities settlements provided that such overdrafts do not 
continue more than a short, fixed number of business days; 
• Some exposures arising from cash settlements by wire transfer, including overdrafts arising from 
failed transfers provided that such overdrafts do not continue more than a short, fixed number 
of business days; 
• Some exposures to banks arising from foreign exchange settlements; and 
• Some short-term loans and deposits. 
113. For transactions falling within the scope of paragraph 110 subject to a master netting agreement, 
the effective maturity is defined as the weighted average maturity of the transactions. A floor equal to the 
minimum holding period for the transaction type set out in paragraph 170 of the standardised approach 
 
17 The intention is to include both parties of a transaction meeting these conditions where neither of the parties is systematically 
under-collateralised.

[Page 78]
74 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
will apply to the average. Where more than one transaction type is contained in the master netting 
agreement a floor equal to the  highest holding period will apply to the average. Further, the notional 
amount of each transaction should be used for weighting maturity.  
114. Where there is no explicit definition, the effective maturity (M) assigned to all exposures is set at 
2.5 years unless otherwise specified in paragraph 107. 
Treatment of maturity mismatches 
115. The treatment of maturity mismatches under IRB is identical to that in the standardised approach 
(see paragraphs 126 to 130).  
D. Rules for retail exposures 
116. Section D presents in detail the method of calculating the UL capital requirements for retail 
exposures. Section D.1 provides the risk weight functions. Section D.2 presents the risk components to 
serve as inputs to the risk -weight functions. The method of calculati ng expected losses, and for 
determining the difference between that measure and provisions is described in Section G.  
1. Risk-weighted assets for retail exposures 
117. There are three separate risk-weight functions for retail exposures, as defined in paragraphs 118 
to 120. Risk weights for retail exposures are based on separate assessments of PD and LGD as inputs to 
the risk -weight functions. None of the three retail risk- weight functions contain the full maturity 
adjustment component that is present in the risk-weight function for exposures to banks and corporates. 
Throughout this section, PD and LGD are measured as decimals, and EAD is measured as currency (eg 
euros).  
(i) Retail residential mortgage exposures 
118. For exposures defined in paragraph 21 that are not in default and are secured or partly secured18 
by residential mortgages, risk weights will be assigned based on the following formula:  
Correlation (R) = 0.15 
Capital requirement (K) = ( )
( ) ( )0.99911
G PD RLGD N G PD LGDRR
 
 ⋅ + ⋅ −⋅  −− 
 
Risk-weighted assets = 12.5K EAD⋅⋅  
The capital requirement (K) for a defaulted exposure is equal to the greater of zero and the 
difference between its LGD (described in paragraph 235) and the bank’s best estimate of expected loss 
(described in paragraph 238). The risk-weighted asset amount for the defaulted exposure is the product 
of K, 12.5 and the EAD. 
(ii) Qualifying revolving retail exposures 
119. For qualifying revolving retail exposures as defined in paragraphs 24 and 25 that are not in 
default, risk weights are defined based on the following formula: 
 
18 This means that risk weights for residential mortgages also apply to the unsecured portion of such residential mortgages.

[Page 79]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 75 
 
 
Correlation (R) = 0.04 
Capital requirement (K) =  ( )
( ) ( )0.99911
G PD RLGD N G PD LGDRR
 
 ⋅ + ⋅ −⋅  −− 
 
Risk-weighted assets = 12.5K EAD⋅⋅  
The capital requirement (K) for a defaulted exposure is equal to the greater of zero a nd the 
difference between its LGD (described in paragraph 235) and the bank’s best estimate of expected loss 
(described in paragraph 238). The risk-weighted asset amount for the defaulted exposure is the product 
of K, 12.5, and the EAD. 
(iii) Other retail exposures 
120. For all other retail exposures that are not in default, risk weights are assigned based on the 
following function, which allows correlation to vary with PD: 
Correlation (R) = ( )
( )
( )
( )
35 35
35 35
11
0.03 0. 16 1
11
PD PDee
ee
−⋅ −⋅
−−
−− ⋅ + ⋅− −− 
 
Capital requirement (K) = ( )
( ) ( )0.99911
G PD RLGD N G PD LGDRR
 
 ⋅ + ⋅ −⋅  −− 
 
Risk-weighted assets = 12.5K EAD⋅⋅  
The capital requirement (K) for a defaulted exposure is equal to the greater of zero and the 
difference between its LGD (described in paragraph 235) and the bank’s best estimate of  expected loss 
(described in paragraph 238). The risk-weighted asset amount for the defaulted exposure is the product 
of K, 12.5, and the EAD. 
Illustrative risk weights are shown in Annex 5 of the Basel II framework (June 2006). 
2. Risk components 
(i) Prob ability of default (PD) and loss given default (LGD) 
121. For each identified pool of retail exposures, banks are expected to provide an estimate of the PD 
and LGD associated with the pool, subject to the minimum requirements as set out in Section H. 
Additionally, the PD for retail exposures is the greater of: (i) the one -year PD associated with the internal 
borrower grade to which the pool of retail exposures is assigned; and (ii) 0.1% for QRRE revolvers (see 
paragraph 25 for the definition of QRRE revolve rs) and 0.05% for all other exposures. The LGD for each 
exposure that is used as input into the risk weight formula and the calculation of expected loss must not 
be less than the parameter floors indicated in the table below:

[Page 80]
76 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
LGD parameter floors  
 LGD 
Unsecured Secured 
Retail classes:   
Mortgages N/A 5% 
QRRE (transactors and revolvers) 50% N/A  
Other retail 30% Varying by collateral type: 
• 0% financial 
• 10% receivables 
• 10% commercial or residential real estate 
• 15% other physical 
The LGD floors for partially secured exposures in the “other retail” category should be calculated according to the formula s et out in 
paragraph 86. The LGD floor for residential mortgages is fixed at 5%, irrespective of the level of collateral provided by the property. 
 
(ii) Recognition of guarantees and credit derivatives 
122. Banks may reflect the risk-reducing effects of guarantees and credit derivatives, either in support 
of an individual obligation or a pool of exposures, through an adjustment of either the PD or LGD estimate, 
subject to the minimum requirements in paragraph s 252 to 263. Whether adjustments are done through 
PD or LGD, they must be done in a consistent manner for a given guarantee or credit derivative type. In 
case the bank applies the standardised approach to direct exposures to the guarantor it must assign t he 
standardised approach risk weight to the covered portion of the exposure. 
123. Consistent with the requirements outlined above for corporate and bank exposures, banks must 
not include the effect of double default in such adjustments. The adjusted risk weight must not be less 
than that of a comparable direct exposure to the protection provider. Consistent with the standardised 
approach, banks may choose not to recognise credit protection if doing so would result in a higher capital 
requirement. 
(iii) Exposure at default (EAD) 
124. Both on and off-balance sheet retail exposures are measured gross of specific provisions or partial 
write-offs. The EAD on drawn amounts should not be less than the sum of: (i) the amount by which a 
bank’s regulatory capital woul d be reduced if the exposure were written -off fully; and (ii) any specific 
provisions and partial write -offs. When the difference between the instrument’s EAD and the sum of (i) 
and (ii) is positive, this amount is termed a discount. The calculation of risk-weighted assets is independent 
of any discounts. Under the limited circumstances described in paragraph 147, discounts may be included 
in the measurement of total eligible provisions for purposes of the EL- provision calculation set out in 
Section G. 
125. On-balance sheet netting of loans and deposits of a bank to or from a retail customer will be 
permitted subject to the same conditions outlined in paragraph 190 of the standardised approach. Banks 
must use their own estimates of EAD for undrawn revolving commitments to extend credit, purchase assets 
or issue credit substitutes provided the exposure is not subject to a CCF of 100% in the standardised 
approach (see paragraph 79 of the standardised approach) and the minimum requirements in paragraphs 
241 to 251 are satisfied. Foundation approach CCFs must be used for all other off-balance sheet items (for 
example, undrawn non-revolving commitments), and must be used where the minimum requirements for 
own estimates of EAD are not met. 
126. For retail exposures with uncertain future drawdown such as credit cards, banks must take into 
account their history and/or expectation of additional drawings prior to default in their overall calibration

[Page 81]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 77 
 
 
of loss estimates. In particular, where a bank does not reflect conversi on factors for undrawn lines in its 
EAD estimates, it must reflect in its LGD estimates the likelihood of additional drawings prior to default. 
Conversely, if the bank does not incorporate the possibility of additional drawings in its LGD estimates, it 
must do so in its EAD estimates.  
127. When only the drawn balances of revolving retail facilities have been securitised, banks must 
ensure that they continue to hold required capital against the undrawn balances associated with the 
securitised exposures using the IRB approach to credit risk for commitments. 
128. To the extent that foreign exchange and interest rate commitments exist within a bank’s retail 
portfolio for IRB purposes, banks are not permitted to provide their internal assessments of credit 
equivalent amounts. Instead, the rules for the standardised approach continue to apply.  
F. Rules for purchased receivables  
129. Section F presents the method of calculating the UL capital requirements for purchased 
receivables. For such assets, there are IRB capital charges for both default risk and dilution risk. Section F.1 
discusses the calculation of risk -weighted assets for default risk. The calculation of risk -weighted assets 
for dilution risk is provided in Section F.2. The method of calculating expected losses, and for determining 
the difference between that measure and provisions, is described in Section G.  
1. Risk-weighted assets for default risk 
130. For receivables belonging unambiguously to one asset class, the IRB risk weight for default risk 
is based on the risk -weight function applicable to that particular exposure type, as long as the bank can 
meet the qualification standards for this particular risk- weight function. For example, if banks cannot 
comply with the standards for qualifying revolving retail exposures (defined in paragraph 24), they should 
use the risk-weight function for other retail exposures. For hybrid pools containing mixtures of exposure 
types, if the purchasing bank cannot separate the exposures by type, the risk -weight function producing 
the highest capital requirements for the exposure types in the receivable pool applies.  
(i) Purchased retail receivables 
131. For purchased retail receivables, a bank must meet the risk quantification standards for retail 
exposures but can utilise external and internal reference data to estimate the PDs and LGDs. The estimates 
for PD and LGD (or EL) must be calculated for the receivables on a stand-alone basis; that is, without regard 
to any assumption of recourse or guarantees from the seller or other parties.  
(ii) Purchased corporate receivables 
132. For purchased corporate receivables the purchasing bank is expected to apply the existing IRB 
risk quantification standards for the bottom -up approach. However, for eligible purchased corporate 
receivables, and subject to supervisory permission, a bank may employ the following top-down procedure 
for calculating IRB risk weights for default risk: 
• The purchasing bank will estimate the pool’s one-year EL for default risk, expressed in percentage 
of the exposure amount (ie the total EAD amount to the bank by all obligors in the receivables 
pool). The estimated EL must be calculated for the receivables on a stand -alone basis; that is, 
without regard to any assumption of recourse or guarantees from the seller or other parties. The 
treatment of recourse or guarantees covering default risk (and/or dilution risk) is discussed 
separately below.

[Page 82]
78 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• Given the EL estimate for the pool’s default losses, the risk weight for default risk is determined 
by the risk-weight function for corporate exposures.19 As described below, the precise calculation 
of risk weights for default risk depends on the bank’s ability to decompose EL into its PD and 
LGD components in a reliable manner. Banks can utilise external and internal data  to estimate 
PDs and LGDs. However, the advanced approach will not be available for banks that use the 
foundation approach for corporate exposures. 
Foundation IRB treatment 
133. If the purchasing bank is unable to decompose EL into its PD and LGD components in a reliable 
manner, the risk weight is determined from the corporate risk -weight function using the following 
specifications: if the bank can demonstrate that the exposures are exclusively senior claims to corporate 
borrowers, an LGD of 40% can be used . PD will be calculated by dividing the EL using this LGD. EAD will 
be calculated as the outstanding amount minus the capital charge for dilution prior to credit risk mitigation 
(KDilution). Otherwise, PD is the bank’s estimate of EL; LGD will be 100%; and EAD is the amount outstanding 
minus KDilution. EAD for a revolving purchase facility is the sum of the current amount of receivables 
purchased plus 40% of any undrawn purchase commitments minus KDilution. If the purchasing bank is able 
to estimate PD in a reliable manner, the risk weight is determined from the corporate risk-weight functions 
according to the specifications for LGD, M and the treatment of guarantees under the foundation approach 
as given in paragraphs 70 to 83, 89 to 95, and 107. 
Advanced IRB treatment 
134. If the purchasing bank can estimate either the pool’s default -weighted average loss rates given 
default (as defined in paragraph 235) or average PD in a reliable manner, the bank may estimate the other 
parameter based on an estimate of the expected long -run loss rate. The bank may: (i) use an appropriate 
PD estimate to infer the long -run default-weighted average loss rate given default; or (ii) use a long -run 
default-weighted average loss rate given default to infer the appropriate PD. In either case, it is important 
to recognise that the LGD used for the IRB capital calculation for purchased receivables cannot be less 
than the long -run default -weighted average loss rate given default and must be consistent with the 
concepts defined in paragraph 235. The risk weight for the purchased receivables will be determined using 
the bank’s estimated PD and LGD as inputs to the corporate risk-weight function. Similar to the foundation 
IRB treatment, EAD will be the amount outstanding minus KDilution. EAD for a revolving purchase facility will 
be the sum of the current amount of receivables purchased plus 40% of any undrawn purchase 
commitments minus KDilution (thus, banks using the advanced IRB approach will not be permitted to use 
their internal EAD estimates for undrawn purchase commitments).  
135. For drawn amounts, M will equal the pool’s exposure -weighted average effective maturity (as 
defined in paragraphs 109 to 114). This same value of M will also be used for undrawn amounts under a 
committed purchase facility provided the facility contains effective covenants, early amortisation triggers, 
or other features that protect the purchasing bank against a significant deterioration in the quality of the 
future receivables it is required to purchase over the facility’s term. Absent such effective protections, the 
 
19 The firm-size adjustment for SME, as defined in paragraph 54, will be the weighted average by individual exposure of the pool 
of purchased corporate receivables. If the bank does not have the information to calculate the average size of the pool, the 
firm-size adjustment will not apply.

[Page 83]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 79 
 
 
M for undrawn amounts will be calculated as the sum of: (a) the longest-dated potential receivable under 
the purchase agreement; and (b) the remaining maturity of the purchase facility. 
2. Risk-weighted assets for dilution risk 
136. Dilution refers to the possibility that the receivable amount is reduced through cash or non-cash 
credits to the receivable’s obligor. 20  For both corporate and retail receivables, unless the bank can 
demonstrate to its supervisor that the dilution risk for the purchasing bank is immaterial, the treatment of 
dilution risk must be the following: at the level of either the pool as a whole (top -down approach) or the 
individual receivables making up the pool (bottom -up approach), the purchasing bank will estimate the 
one-year EL for dilution risk, also expressed in percentage of the receivables amount. Banks can utilise 
external and internal data to estimate EL. As with the treatments of default risk, this estimate must be 
computed on a stand-alone basis; that is, under the assumption of no recourse or other support from the 
seller or third-party guarantors. For the purpose of calculating risk weights for dilution risk, the corporate 
risk-weight function must be used with the following settings: the PD must be set equal to the estimated 
EL, and the LGD must be set at 100%. An appropriate maturity treatment applies when determining the 
capital requirement for dilution risk. If a bank can demonstrate that the dilution risk is appropriately 
monitored and managed to be resolved within one year, the supervisor may allow the bank to apply a 
one-year maturity. 
137. This treatment will be applied regardless of whether the underlying receivables are corporate or 
retail exposures, and regardless of whether the risk weights for default risk are computed using the 
standard IRB treatments or, for corporate receivables, the top-down treatment described above.  
3. Treatment of purchase price discounts for receivables 
138. In many cases, the p urchase price of receivables will reflect a discount (not to be confused with 
the discount concept defined in paragraphs 98 and 124) that provides first loss protection for default 
losses, dilution losses or both. To the extent that a portion of such a pur chase price discount may be 
refunded to the seller based on the performance of the receivables, the purchaser may recognise this 
refundable amount as first -loss protection and hence treat this exposure under the securitisation 
framework, while the seller providing such a refundable purchase price discount must treat the refundable 
amount as a first -loss position under the securitisation framework. Non-refundable purchase price 
discounts for receivables do not affect either the EL-provision calculation in Section G or the calculation 
of risk-weighted assets. 
139. When collateral or partial guarantees obtained on receivables provide first loss protection 
(collectively referred to as mitigants in this paragraph), and these mitigants cover default losses, dilution 
losses, or both, they may also be treated as first loss protection under the securitisation framework (see 
paragraph 51 of the securitisation framework ). When the same mitigant covers both default and dilution 
 
20 Examples include offsets or allowances arising from returns of goods sold, disputes regarding product quality, possible debts 
of the borrower to a receivables obligor, and any payment or promotional discounts offered by the borrower (eg a credit for 
cash payments within 30 days).

[Page 84]
80 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
risk, banks using the Securitisation Internal Ratings-Based Approach (SEC-IRBA) that are able to calculate 
an exposure-weighted LGD must do so as defined in paragraph 60 of the securitisation framework.  
4. Recognition of credit risk mitigants 
140. Credit risk mitigants will be recognised generally using the same type of framework as set forth 
in paragraphs 90 to 97. 21 In particular, a guarantee provided by the seller or a third party will be treated 
using the existing IRB rules for guarantees, regardless of whether the guarantee covers default risk, dilution 
risk, or both.  
• If the guarantee covers both the pool’s default risk and dilution risk, the bank will substitute the 
risk weight for an exposure to the guarantor in place of the pool’s total risk weight for default 
and dilution risk.  
• If the guarantee covers only default risk or dilution risk, but not both, the bank will substitute the 
risk weight for an exposure to the guarantor in place of the pool’s risk weight for the 
corresponding risk component (default or dilution). The capital requirement for the other 
component will then be added. 
• If a guarantee covers only a portion of the default and/or dilution risk, the uncovered portion of 
the default and/or dilution risk will be treated as per the existing CRM rules for proportional or 
tranched coverage (ie the risk weights of the uncovered risk components will be added to the 
risk weights of the covered risk components).  
G. Treatment of expected losses and recognition of provisions 
141. Section G discusses the method by which the difference between provisions (eg specific 
provisions, portfolio-specific general provisions such as country risk provisions or general provisions) and 
expected losses may be included in or must be deducted from regulatory capital, as outlined in the 
definition of capital section of the Basel III framework (June 2011).  
1. Calculation of expected losses  
142. A bank must sum the EL amount (defined as EL multiplied by EAD) associated with its exposures 
to which the IRB approach is applied (excluding the EL amount associated wi th securitisation exposures) 
to obtain a total EL amount. The treatment of EL for securitisation exposures is described in paragraph 37 
of the securitisation framework.  
(i) Expected loss for exposures other than exposures subject to the supervisory slotting 
criteria 
143. Banks must calculate EL as PD x LGD for corporate, bank, and retail exposures not in default. For 
corporate, bank, and retail exposures that are in default, banks must use their best estimate of expected 
loss as defined in paragraph 238 for exposures subject to the advanced approach and for exposures 
subject to the foundation approach banks must use the supervisory LGD. For exposures subject to the 
supervisory slotting criteria EL is calculated as described in paragraphs 144 to 146. Securitisation exposures 
do not contribute to the EL amount, as set out in paragraph 37 of the securitisation framework.  
 
21  At national supervisory discretion, banks may recognise guarantors that are internally rated and associated with a PD equivalent 
to less than A- under the foundation IRB approach for purposes of determining capital requirements for dilution risk.

[Page 85]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 81 
 
 
(ii) Expected loss for specialised lending (SL) exposures subject to the supervisory slotting 
criteria  
144. For SL exposures subject to the supervisory slotting criteria, the EL amount is determined by 
multiplying 8% by the risk-weighted assets produced from the appropriate risk weights, as specified below, 
multiplied by EAD.  
Supervisory categories and EL risk weights for non-HVCRE SL exposures 
145. The risk weights for SL, other than HVCRE, are as follows: 
Strong Good Satisfactory Weak Default 
5% 10% 35% 100% 625% 
 
Where, at national discretion, supervisors allow banks to assign preferential risk weights to non -
HVCRE SL exposures falling into the “strong” and “good” supervisory categories as outlined in paragraph 
58, the corresponding EL risk weight is 0% for “strong” exposures, and 5% for “good” exposures. 
Supervisory categories and EL risk weights for HVCRE 
146. The risk weights for HVCRE are as follows: 
Strong Good Satisfactory Weak Default 
5% 5% 35% 100% 625% 
 
Even where, at national discretion, supervisors allow banks to assign preferential risk weights to 
HVCRE exposures falling into the “strong” and “good” supervisory categories as outlined in paragraph 63, 
the corresponding EL risk weight will remain at 5% for both “strong” and “good” exposures.  
2. Calculation of provisions 
(i) Exposures subject to the IRB approach 
147. Total eligible provisions are defined as the sum of all provisions (eg specific provisions, partial 
write-offs, portfolio-specific general provisions such as country risk provisions or general provisions) that 
are attributed to exposures treated under the IRB approach. In addition, total eligible provisions may 
include any discounts on defaulted assets. Specific provisions set aside against securitisation exposures 
must not be included in total eligible provisions.  
(ii) Portion of exposures subject to the standardised approach for credit risk  
148. Banks using the standardised approach for a portion of their credit risk exposures (see paragraphs 
44 to 48), must determine the portion of general provisions attributed to the standardised or IRB treatment 
of provisions according to the methods outlined in paragraphs 149 and 150. 
149. Banks should generally attribute total general provisions on a pro rata basis according to the 
proportion of credit risk-weighted assets subject to the standardised and IRB approaches. However, when 
one approach to determining credit risk -weighted assets  (ie standardised or IRB approach) is used 
exclusively within an entity, general provisions booked within the entity using the standardised approach 
may be attributed to the standardised treatment. Similarly, general provisions booked within entities using 
the IRB approach may be attributed to the total eligible provisions as defined in paragraph 147.  
150. At national supervisory discretion, banks using both the standardised and IRB approaches may 
rely on their internal methods for allocating general provisions for recognition in capital under either the 
standardised or IRB approach, subject to the following conditions. Where the internal allocation method

[Page 86]
82 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
is made available, the national supervisor will establish the standards surrounding their use. Banks will 
need to obtain prior approval from their supervisors to use an internal allocation method for this purpose. 
3. Treatment of EL and provisions 
151. As specified in paragraphs 61 and 73 of the Basel III framework (June 2011), banks using the IRB 
approach must compare the total amount of total eligible provisions (as defined in paragraph 147) with 
the total EL amount as calculated within the IRB approach (as defined in paragraph 142). In addition, 
paragraph 60 of the Basel III framework (June 2011) outlines the treatment for that portion of a bank that 
is subject to the standardised approach for credit risk when the bank uses both the standardised and IRB 
approaches. 
152. Where the calculated EL amount is lower than the total eligible provisions of the bank, its 
supervisors must consider whether the EL fully reflects the conditions in the market in which it opera tes 
before allowing the difference to be included in Tier 2 capital. If specific provisions exceed the EL amount 
on defaulted assets this assessment also needs to be made before using the difference to offset the EL 
amount on non-defaulted assets. 
153. The treatment of EL and provisions related to securitisation exposures is outlined in paragraph 
37 of the securitisation framework. 
H. Minimum requirements for IRB approach 
154. Section H presents the minimum requirements for entry and on -going use of the IRB approach. 
The minimum requirements are set out in 12 separate sections concerning: (a) composition of minimum 
requirements; (b) compliance with minimum requirements; (c) rating system design; (d) risk rating system 
operations; (e) corporate governance and  oversight; (f) use of internal ratings; (g) risk quantification; (h) 
validation of internal estimates; (i) supervisory LGD and EAD estimates; (j) requirements for recognition of 
leasing; (k) calculation of capital charges for equity exposures; and (l) disclosure requirements. It may be 
helpful to note that the minimum requirements cut across asset classes. Therefore, more than one asset 
class may be discussed within the context of a given minimum requirement.  
1. Composition of minimum requirements 
155. To be eligible for the IRB approach a bank must demonstrate to its supervisor that it meets certain 
minimum requirements at the outset and on an ongoing basis. Many of these  requirements are in the 
form of objectives that a qualifying bank’s risk rating systems must fulfil. The focus is on banks’ abilities to 
rank order and quantify risk in a consistent, reliable and valid fashion.  
156. The overarching principle behind these requirements is that rating and risk estimation systems 
and processes provide for a meaningful assessment of borrower and transaction characteristics; a 
meaningful differentiation of risk; and reasonably accurate and consistent quantitative estimates of risk. 
Furthermore, the systems and processes must be consistent with internal use of t hese estimates. The 
Committee recognises that differences in markets, rating methodologies, banking products, and practices 
require banks and supervisors to customise their operational procedures. It is not the Committee’s 
intention to dictate the form or operational detail of banks’ risk management policies and practices. Each 
supervisor will develop detailed review procedures to ensure that banks’ systems and controls are 
adequate to serve as the basis for the IRB approach.  
157. The minimum requirements set out in this document apply to all asset classes unless noted 
otherwise. The standards related to the process of assigning exposures to borrower or facility grades (and

[Page 87]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 83 
 
 
the related oversight, validation, etc) apply equally to the process of assigning retail exposures to pools of 
homogenous exposures, unless noted otherwise.  
158. The minimum requirements set out in this document apply to both foundation and advanced 
approaches unless noted otherwise. Generally, all IRB banks must produce their own estima tes of PD 22 
and must adhere to the overall requirements for rating system design, operations, controls, and corporate 
governance, as well as the requisite requirements for estimation and validation of PD measures. Banks 
wishing to use their own estimates of  LGD and EAD must also meet the incremental minimum 
requirements for these risk factors included in paragraphs 235 to 263.  
2. Compliance with minimum requirements 
159. To be eligible for an IRB approach, a bank must demonstrate to its supervisor that it m eets the 
IRB requirements in this document, at the outset and on an ongoing basis. Banks’ overall credit risk 
management practices must also be consistent with the evolving sound practice guidelines issued by the 
Committee and national supervisors. 
160. There may be circumstances when a bank is not in complete compliance with all the minimum 
requirements. Where this is the case, the bank must produce a plan for a timely return to compliance, and 
seek approval from its supervisor, or the bank must demonstrat e that the effect of such non -compliance 
is immaterial in terms of the risk posed to the institution. Failure to produce an acceptable plan or 
satisfactorily implement the plan or to  demonstrate immateriality will lead supervisors to reconsider the 
bank’s eligibility for the IRB approach. Furthermore, for the duration of any non- compliance, supervisors 
will consider the need for the bank to hold additional capital under Pillar 2 or take other appropriate 
supervisory action.  
3. Rating system design 
161. The term “rating system” comprises all of the methods, processes, controls, and data collection 
and IT systems that support the assessment of credit risk, the assignment of internal risk ratings, and the 
quantification of default and loss estimates.  
162. Within each asset class, a bank may utilise multiple rating methodologies/systems. For example, 
a bank may have customised rating systems for specific industries or market segments (eg middle market, 
and large corporate). If a bank chooses to use multiple sys tems, the rationale for assigning a borrower to 
a rating system must be documented and applied in a manner that best reflects the level of risk of the 
borrower. Banks must not allocate borrowers across rating systems inappropriately to minimise regulatory 
capital requirements (ie cherry -picking by choice of rating system). Banks must demonstrate that each 
system used for IRB purposes is in compliance with the minimum requirements at the outset and on an 
ongoing basis.  
(i) Rating dimensions 
Standards for corporate and bank exposures 
163. A qualifying IRB rating system must have two separate and distinct dimensions: (i) the risk of 
borrower default; and (ii) transaction-specific factors.  
164. The first dimension must be oriented to the risk of borrower default. Separate exposures to the 
same borrower must be assigned to the same borrower grade, irrespective of any differences in the nature 
of each specific transaction. There are two exceptions to this. Firstly, in the case of country transfer risk, 
 
22  Banks are not required to produce their own estimates of PD for exposures subject to the supervisory slotting approach.

[Page 88]
84 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
where a bank may assign different borrower grades depending on whether the facility is denominated in 
local or foreign currency. Secondly, when the treatment of associated guarantees to a facility may be 
reflected in an adjusted borrower grade. In either case, separ ate exposures may result in multiple grades 
for the same borrower. A bank must articulate in its credit policy the relationship between borrower grades 
in terms of the level of risk each grade implies. Perceived and measured risk must increase as credit quality 
declines from one grade to the next. The policy must articulate the risk of each grade in terms of both a 
description of the probability of default risk typical for borrowers assigned the grade and the criteria used 
to distinguish that level of credit risk.  
165. The second dimension must reflect transaction-specific factors, such as collateral, seniority, 
product type, etc. For exposures subject to the foundation IRB approach, this requirement can be fulfilled 
by the existence of a facility dimension, which reflects both borrower and transaction-specific factors. For 
example, a rating dimension that reflects EL by incorporating both borrower strength (PD) and loss severity 
(LGD) considerations would qualify. Likewise a rating system that exclusively r eflects LGD would qualify. 
Where a rating dimension reflects EL and does not separately quantify LGD, the supervisory estimates of 
LGD must be used.  
166. For banks using the advanced approach, facility ratings must reflect exclusively LGD. These ratings 
can reflect any and all factors that can influence LGD including, but not limited to, the type of collateral, 
product, industry, and purpose. Borrower characteristics may be included as LGD rating criteria only to the 
extent they are predictive of LGD. Banks may alter the factors that influence facility grades across segments 
of the portfolio as long as they can satisfy their supervisor that it improves the relevance and precision of 
their estimates.  
167. Banks using the supervisory slotting criteria are exempt from this two -dimensional requirement 
for these exposures. Given the interdependence between borrower/transaction characteristics in 
exposures subject to the supervisory slotting approaches, banks may satisfy the requirements under this 
heading through a single rating dimension that reflects EL by incorporating both borrower strength (PD) 
and loss severity (LGD) considerations. This exemption does not apply to banks using the general 
corporate foundation or advanced approach for the SL sub-class.  
Standards for retail exposures 
168. Rating systems for retail exposures must be oriented to both borrower and transaction risk, and 
must capture all relevant borrower and transaction characteristics. Banks must assign each exposure that 
falls within the definition of retail for IRB purposes into a particular pool. Banks must demonstrate that this 
process provides for a meaningful differentiation of risk, provides for a grouping of sufficiently 
homogenous exposures, and allows for accurate and consistent estimation of loss characteristics at pool 
level.  
169. For each pool, banks must estimate PD, LGD, and EAD. Multiple pools may share identical PD, 
LGD and EAD estimates. At a minimum, banks should consider the following risk drivers when assigning 
exposures to a pool: 
• Borrower risk characteristics (eg borrower type, demographics such as age/occupation);  
• Transaction risk characteristics, including product and/or collateral types (eg loan to value 
measures, season ing,23 guarantees; and seniority (first vs. second lien)). Banks must explicitly 
address cross-collateral provisions where present.  
 
23  For each pool where the banks estimate PD and LGD, banks should analyse the representativeness of the a ge of the facilities 
(in terms of time since origination for PD and time since the date of default for LGD) in the data used to derive the estimat es 
of the bank’s actual facilities. In some jurisdictions default rates peak several years after origination or recovery rates show a 
low point several years after default, banks should adjust the estimates with an adequate margin of conservatism to account 
for the lack of representativeness as well as anticipated implications of rapid exposure growth.

[Page 89]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 85 
 
 
• Delinquency of exposure: Banks are expected to separately identify exposures that are delinquent 
and those that are not.  
(ii) Rating structure 
Standards for corporate and bank exposures 
170. A bank must have a meaningful distribution of exposures across grades with no excessive 
concentrations, on both its borrower-rating and its facility-rating scales.  
171. To meet this objective, a bank must have a minimum of seven borrower grades for non-defaulted 
borrowers and one for those that have defaulted. Banks with lending activities focused on a particular 
market segment may satisfy this requirement with the minimum number of grad es.  
172. A borrower grade is defined as an assessment of borrower risk on the basis of a specified and 
distinct set of rating criteria, from which estimates of PD are derived. The grade definition must include 
both a description of the degree of default r isk typical for borrowers assigned the grade and the criteria 
used to distinguish that level of credit risk. Furthermore, “+” or “ -” modifiers to alpha or numeric grades 
will only qualify as distinct grades if the bank has developed complete rating descriptions and criteria for 
their assignment, and separately quantifies PDs for these modified grades. 
173. Banks with loan portfolios concentrated in a particular market segment and range of default risk 
must have enough grades within that range to avoid undue  concentrations of borrowers in particular 
grades. Significant concentrations within a single grade or grades must be supported by convincing 
empirical evidence that the grade or grades cover reasonably narrow PD bands and that the default risk 
posed by all borrowers in a grade fall within that band.  
174. There is no specific minimum number of facility grades for banks using the advanced approach 
for estimating LGD. A bank must have a sufficient number of facility grades to avoid grouping facilities 
with widely varying LGDs into a single grade. The criteria used to define facility grades must be grounded 
in empirical evidence.  
175. Banks using the supervisory slotting criteria must have at least four grades for non -defaulted 
borrowers, and one for defaulte d borrowers. The requirements for SL exposures that qualify for the 
corporate foundation and advanced approaches are the same as those for general corporate exposures.  
Standards for retail exposures 
176. For each pool identified, the bank must be able to provide quantitative measures of loss 
characteristics (PD, LGD, and EAD) for that pool. The level of differentiation for IRB purposes must ensure 
that the number of exposures in a given pool is sufficient so as to allow for meaningful quantification and 
validation of the loss characteristics at the pool level. There must be a meaningful distribution of borrowers 
and exposures across pools. A single pool must not include an undue concentration of the bank’s total 
retail exposure. 
(iii) Rating criteria 
177. A bank must have specific rating definitions, processes and criteria for assigning exposures to 
grades within a rating system. The rating definitions and criteria must be both plausible and intuitive and 
must result in a meaningful differentiation of risk.  
• The grade descriptions and criteria must be sufficiently detailed to allow those charged with 
assigning ratings to consistently assign the same grade to borrowers or facilities posing similar 
risk. This consistency should exist across lines of business, departments and geographic locations. 
If rating criteria and procedures differ for different types of borrowers or facilities, the bank must

[Page 90]
86 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
monitor for possible inconsistency, and must alter rating criteria to improve consistency when 
appropriate.  
• Written rating definitions must be clear and detailed enough to allow third parties to understand 
the assignment of ratings, such as internal audit or an equally independent function and 
supervisors, to replicate rating assignments and evaluate the appropriatenes s of the grade/pool 
assignments.  
• The criteria must also be consistent with the bank’s internal lending standards and its policies for 
handling troubled borrowers and facilities. 
178. To ensure that banks are consistently taking into account available information, they must use all 
relevant and material information in assigning ratings to borrowers and facilities. Information must be 
current. The less information a bank has, the more conservative must be its assignments of exposures to 
borrower and facility grades or pools. An external rating can be the primary factor determining an internal 
rating assignment; however, the bank must ensure that it considers other relevant information.  
Exposures subject to the supervisory slotting approach 
179. Banks using the supervisory slotting criteria must assign exposures to their internal rating grades 
based on their own criteria, systems and processes, subject to compliance with the requisite minimum 
requirements. Banks must then map these internal rating grades into the five supervisory rating categories. 
Tables 1 to 4 in Annex 6 of the Basel II framework (June 2006) provide, for each sub-class of SL exposures, 
the general assessment factors and characteristics exhibited by the exposures that fall under each of the 
supervisory categories. Each lending activity has a unique table describing the assessment factors and 
characteristics.  
180. The Committee recognises that the criteria that banks use to assign exposures to internal grades 
will not perfectly align with crit eria that define the supervisory categories; however, banks must 
demonstrate that their mapping process has resulted in an alignment of grades which is consistent with 
the preponderance of the characteristics in the respective supervisory category. Banks should take special 
care to ensure that any overrides of their internal criteria do not render the mapping process ineffective.  
(iv) Rating assignment horizon 
181. Although the time horizon used in PD estimation is one year (as described in paragraph 215) , 
banks are expected to use a longer time horizon in assigning ratings.  
182. A borrower rating must represent the bank’s assessment of the borrower’s ability and willingness 
to contractually perform despite adverse economic conditions or the occurrence of unexpected events. 
The range of economic conditions that are considered when making assessments must be consistent with 
current conditions and those that are likely to occur over a business cycle within the respective 
industry/geographic region. Rating syst ems should be designed in such a way that idiosyncratic or 
industry-specific changes are a driver of migrations from one category to another, and business cycle 
effects may also be a driver. 
183. PD estimates for borrowers that are highly leveraged or for borrowers whose assets are 
predominantly traded assets must reflect the performance of the underlying assets based on periods of 
stressed volatilities. 
184. Given the difficulties in forecasting future events and the influence they will have on a particula r 
borrower’s financial condition, a bank must take a conservative view of projected information. 
Furthermore, where limited data are available, a bank must adopt a conservative bias to its analysis.

[Page 91]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 87 
 
 
(v) Use of models 
185. The requirements in this section apply to statistical models and other mechanical methods used 
to assign borrower or facility ratings or in estimation of PDs, LGDs, or EADs. Credit scoring models and 
other mechanical rating procedures generally use only a subset of available information. Although 
mechanical rating procedures may sometimes avoid some of the idiosyncratic errors made by rating 
systems in which human judgement plays a large role, mechanical use of limited information also is a 
source of rating errors. Credit scoring models an d other mechanical procedures are permissible as the 
primary or partial basis of rating assignments, and may play a role in the estimation of loss characteristics. 
Sufficient human judgement and human oversight is necessary to ensure that all relevant and material 
information, including that which is outside the scope of the model, is also taken into consideration, and 
that the model is used appropriately.  
• The burden is on the bank to satisfy its supervisor that a model or procedure has good predictive 
power and that regulatory capital requirements will not be distorted as a result of its use. The 
variables that are input to the model must form a reasonable set of predictors. The model must 
be accurate on average across the range of borrowers or facilities to which the bank is exposed 
and there must be no known material biases.  
• The bank must have in place a process for vetting data inputs into a statistical default or loss 
prediction model which includes an assessment of the accuracy, completeness and 
appropriateness of the data specific to the assignment of an approved rating.  
• The bank must demonstrate that the data used to build the model are representative of the 
population of the bank’s actual borrowers or facilities.  
• When combining model results with human judgement, the judgement must take into account 
all relevant and material information not considered by the model. The bank must have written 
guidance describing how human judgement and model results are to be combined.  
• The bank must have procedures for human review of model -based rating assignments. Such 
procedures should focus on finding and limiting errors associated with known model weaknesses 
and must also include credible ongoing efforts to improve the model’s performance.  
• The bank must have a regular cycle of model validation that includes monitoring of model 
performance and stability; review of model relationships; and testing of model outputs against 
outcomes.  
(vi) Documentation of rating system design 
186. Banks must document in writing the ir rating systems’ design and operational details. The 
documentation must evidence banks’ compliance with the minimum standards, and must address topics 
such as portfolio differentiation, rating criteria, responsibilities of parties that rate borrowers and facilities, 
definition of what constitutes a rating exception, parties that have authority to approve exceptions, 
frequency of rating reviews, and management oversight of the rating process. A bank must document the 
rationale for its choice of internal rating criteria and must be able to provide analyses demonstrating that 
rating criteria and procedures are likely to result in ratings that meaningfully differentiate risk. Rating 
criteria and procedures must be periodically reviewed to determine whether they remain fully applicable 
to the current portfolio and to external conditions. In addition, a bank must document a history of major 
changes in the risk rating process, and such documentation must support identification of changes made 
to the risk rating process subsequent to the last supervisory review. The organisation of rating assignment, 
including the internal control structure, must also be documented. 
187. Banks must document the specific definitions of default and loss used internally and demonstrate 
consistency with the reference definitions set out in paragraphs 220 to 228.

[Page 92]
88 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
188. If the bank employs statistical models in the rating process, the bank must document their 
methodologies. This material must: 
• Provide a detailed outline of the theory, assumptions and/or mathematical and empirical basis of 
the assignment of estimates to grades, individual obligors, exposures, or pools, and the data 
source(s) used to estimate the model; 
• Establish a rigorous statistical process (including out -of-time and out -of-sample performance 
tests) for validating the model; and 
• Indicate any circumstances under which the model does not work effectively.  
189. Use of a model obtained from a third -party vendor that claims proprietary technology is not a 
justification for exemption from documentation or any other of the requirements for internal rating 
systems. The burden is on the model’s vendor and the bank to satisfy supervisors.  
4. Risk rating system operations 
(i) Coverage of ratings 
190. For corporate, and bank exposures,  each borrower and all recognised guarantors must be 
assigned a rating and each exposure must be associated with a facility rating as part of the loan approval 
process. Similarly, for retail, each exposure must be assigned to a pool as part of the loan approval process. 
191. Each separate legal entity to which the bank is exposed must be separately rated. A bank must 
have policies acceptable to its supervisor regarding the treatment of individual entities in a connected 
group including circumstances under which the same rating may or may not be assigned to some or all 
related entities. Those policies must include a process for the identification of specific wrong way risk for 
each legal entity to which the bank is exposed. Transactions with counterparties where specific wrong way 
risk has been identified need to be treated differently when calculating the EAD for such exposures (see 
paragraph 58 of the counterparty credit risk standards). 
(ii) Integrity of rating process 
Standards for corporate and bank exposures 
192. Rating assignments and periodic rating reviews must be completed or approved by a party that 
does not directly stand to benefit from the extension of credit. Independence of the rating assignment 
process can be achieved through a range of practices that will be carefully reviewed by supervisors. These 
operational processes must be documented in the bank’s procedures and incorporated into bank policies. 
Credit policies and underwriting procedures must reinforce and foster the independence of the r ating 
process. 
193. Borrowers and facilities must have their ratings refreshed at least on an annual basis. Certain 
credits, especially higher risk borrowers or problem exposures, must be subject to more frequent review. 
In addition, banks must initiate a new rating if material information on the borrower or facility comes to 
light. 
194. The bank must have an effective process to obtain and update relevant and material information 
on the borrower’s financial condition, and on facility characteristics that affect LGDs and EADs (such as the 
condition of collateral). Upon receipt, the bank needs to have a procedure to update the borrower’s rating 
in a timely fashion.

[Page 93]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 89 
 
 
Standards for retail exposures  
195. A bank must review the loss characteristics and delinquency status of each identified risk pool on 
at least an annual basis. It must also review the status of individual borrowers within each pool as a means 
of ensuring that exposures continue to be assigned to the correct pool. This requirement may be satisfied 
by review of a representative sample of exposures in the pool. 
(iii) Overrides 
196. For rating assignments based on expert judgement, banks must clearly articulate the situations 
in which bank officers may override the outputs of the rating process, including how and to what extent 
such overrides can be used and by whom. For model -based ratings, the bank must have guidelines and 
processes for monitoring cases where human judgement has overridden the model’s rating, variables were 
excluded or inputs were altered. These guidelines must include identifying personnel that are responsible 
for approving these overrides. Banks must identify overrides and separately track their performance.   
(iv) Data maintenance 
197. A bank must collect and store data on key borrower and facility characteristics to provide effective 
support to its internal credit risk measurement and management process, to enable the bank to meet the 
other requirements in this document, and to serve as a basis for supervisory reporting. These data should 
be sufficiently detailed to allow retrospective re-allocation of obligors and facilities to grades, for example 
if increasing sophistication of the internal rating system suggests that finer segregation of portfolios can 
be achieved.  Furthermore, ba nks must collect and retain data on aspects of their internal ratings as 
required under Pillar 3 of this Framework.  
For corporate and bank exposures 
198. Banks must maintain rating histories on borrowers and recognised guarantors, including the 
rating since the borrower/guarantor was assigned an internal grade, the dates the ratings were assigned, 
the methodology and key data used to derive the rating and the person/model responsible. The identity 
of borrowers and facilities that default, and the timing an d circumstances of such defaults, must be 
retained. Banks must also retain data on the PDs and realised default rates associated with rating grades 
and ratings migration in order to track the predictive power of the borrower rating system.  
199. Banks using the advanced IRB approach must also collect and store a complete history of data 
on the LGD and EAD estimates associated with each facility and the key data used to derive the estimate 
and the person/model responsible. Banks must also collect data on the  estimated and realised LGDs and 
EADs associated with each defaulted facility. Banks that reflect the credit risk mitigating effects of 
guarantees/credit derivatives through LGD must retain data on the LGD of the facility before and after 
evaluation of the effects of the guarantee/credit derivative. Information about the components of loss or 
recovery for each defaulted exposure must be retained, such as amounts recovered, source of recovery 
(eg collateral, liquidation proceeds and guarantees), time period required for recovery, and administrative 
costs.  
200. Banks under the foundation approach which utilise supervisory estimates are encouraged to 
retain the relevant data (ie data on loss and recovery experience for corporate exposures under the 
foundation approach, data on realised losses for banks using the supervisory slotting criteria).  
For retail exposures 
201. Banks must retain data used in the process of allocating exposures to pools, including data on 
borrower and transaction risk characteristics used either directly or through use of a model, as well as data 
on delinquency. Banks must also retain data on the estimated PDs, LGDs and EADs, associated with pools

[Page 94]
90 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
of exposures. For defaulted exposures, banks must retain the data on the pools to which the exposure was 
assigned over the year prior to default and the realised outcomes on LGD and EAD.  
(v) Stress tests used in assessment of capital adequacy  
202. An IRB bank must have in place sound stress testing processes for use in the assessment of capital 
adequacy. Stress testing must involve identifying possible events or future changes in economic conditions 
that could have unfavourable effects on a bank’s credit exposures and assessment of the bank’s ability to 
withstand such changes. Examples of scenarios that could be used are (i) economic or industry downturns; 
(ii) market-risk events; and (iii) liquidity conditions. 
203. In addition to the more general tests described above, the bank must perform a credit risk stress 
test to assess the effect of cert ain specific conditions on its IRB regulatory capital requirements. The test 
to be employed would be one chosen by the bank, subject to supervisory review. The test to be employed 
must be meaningful and reasonably conservative. Individual banks may develop  different approaches to 
undertaking this stress test requirement, depending on their circumstances. For this purpose, the objective 
is not to require banks to consider worst -case scenarios. The bank’s stress test in this context should, 
however, consider at least the effect of mild recession scenarios. In this case, one example might be to use 
two consecutive quarters of zero growth to assess the effect on the bank’s PDs, LGDs and EADs, taking 
account – on a conservative basis – of the bank’s international diversification. 
204. Whatever method is used, the bank must include a consideration of the following sources of 
information. First, a bank’s own data should allow estimation of the ratings migration of at least some of 
its exposures. Second, banks should consider information about the impact of smaller deterioration in the 
credit environment on a bank’s ratings, giving some information on the likely effect of bigger, stress 
circumstances. Third, banks should evaluate evidence o f ratings migration in external ratings. This would 
include the bank broadly matching its buckets to rating categories. 
205. National supervisors may wish to issue guidance to their banks on how the tests to be used for 
this purpose should be designed, bearing in mind conditions in their jurisdiction. The results of the stress 
test may indicate no difference in the capital calculated under the IRB rules described in this section of this 
Framework if the bank already uses such an approach for its internal rating purposes. Where a bank 
operates in several markets, it does not need to test for such conditions in all of those markets, but a bank 
should stress portfolios containing the vast majority of its total exposures. 
5. Corporate governance and oversight 
(i) Corporate governance 
206. All material aspects of the rating and estimation processes must be approved by the bank’s board 
of directors or a designated committee thereof and senior management. 24 These parties must possess a 
general understanding of the ba nk’s risk rating system and detailed comprehension of its associated 
management reports. Senior management must provide notice to the board of directors or a designated 
committee thereof of material changes or exceptions from established policies that will  materially impact 
the operations of the bank’s rating system.  
 
24  This standard refers to a management structure composed of a board of directors and senior management. The Committee is 
aware that there are significant differences in legislative and regulatory frameworks across countries as regards the functio ns 
of the board of directors and senior management. In some countries, the board has the main, if not exclusive, function of 
supervising the executive body (senior management, general management) so as to ensure that the latter fulfils its tasks. For  
this reason, in some cases, it is known as a supervisory board. This means that the board has no executive functions. In other 
countries, by contrast, the board has a broader competence in that it lays down the general framework for the management 
of the bank. Owing to these differences, the notions of the board of directors and senior management are used in this paper 
not to identify legal constructs but rather to label two decision-making functions within a bank.

[Page 95]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 91 
 
 
207. Senior management also must have a good understanding of the rating system’s design and 
operation, and must approve material differences between established procedure and actual practice.  
Management must also ensure, on an ongoing basis, that the rating system is operating properly. 
Management and staff in the credit control function must meet regularly to discuss the performance of 
the rating process, areas needing improvement, and the st atus of efforts to improve previously identified 
deficiencies.  
208. Internal ratings must be an essential part of the reporting to these parties. Reporting must include 
risk profile by grade, migration across grades, estimation of the relevant parameters per grade, and 
comparison of realised default rates (and LGDs and EADs for banks on advanced approaches) against 
expectations. Reporting frequencies may vary with the significance and type of information and the level 
of the recipient. 
(ii) Credit risk control  
209. Banks must have independent credit risk control units that are responsible for the design or 
selection, implementation and performance of their internal rating systems. The unit(s) must be 
functionally independent from the personnel and manageme nt functions responsible for originating 
exposures. Areas of responsibility must include: 
• Testing and monitoring internal grades; 
• Production and analysis of summary reports from the bank’s rating system, to include historical 
default data sorted by rating at the time of default and one year prior to default, grade migration 
analyses, and monitoring of trends in key rating criteria;  
• Implementing procedures to verify that rating definitions are consistently applied across 
departments and geographic areas;  
• Reviewing and documenting any changes to the rating process, including the reasons for the 
changes; and 
• Reviewing the rating criteria to evaluate if they remain predictive of risk. Changes to the rating 
process, criteria or individual rating parameters must be documented and retained for supervisors 
to review. 
210. A credit risk control unit must actively participate in the development, selection, implementation 
and validation of rating models. It must assume oversight and supervision  responsibilities for any models 
used in the rating process, and ultimate responsibility for the ongoing review and alterations to rating 
models.  
(iii) Internal and external audit 
211. Internal audit or an equally independent function must review at least annually the bank’s rating 
system and its operations, including the operations of the credit function and the estimation of PDs, LGDs 
and EADs. Areas of review include adherence to all applicable minimum requirements. Internal audit must 
document its findings.  
6. Use of internal ratings 
212. Internal ratings and default and loss estimates must play an essential role in the credit approval, 
risk management, internal capital allocations, and corporate governance functions of banks using the IRB 
approach. Ratings systems and estimates designed and implemented exclusively for the purpose of 
qualifying for the IRB approach and used only to provide IRB inputs are not acceptable. It is recognised 
that banks will not necessarily be using exactly the same estimates for both IRB and all in ternal purposes.

[Page 96]
92 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
For example, pricing models are likely to use PDs and LGDs relevant to the life of the asset. Where there 
are such differences, a bank must document them and demonstrate their reasonableness to the supervisor. 
213. A bank must have a credible track record in the use of internal ratings information. Thus, the bank 
must demonstrate that it has been using a rating system that was broadly in line with the minimum 
requirements articulated in this document for at least the three years prior to qualification. A bank using 
the advanced IRB approach must demonstrate that it has been estimating and employing LGDs and EADs 
in a manner that is broadly consistent with the minimum requirements for use of own estimates of LGDs 
and EADs for at least the thr ee years prior to qualification. Improvements to a bank’s rating system will 
not render a bank non-compliant with the three-year requirement. 
7. Risk quantification 
(i) Overall requirements for estimation 
Structure and intent  
214. This section addresses the broad standards for own-estimates of PD, LGD, and EAD. Generally, all 
banks using the IRB approaches must estimate a PD25 for each internal borrower grade for corporate and 
bank exposures or for each pool in the case of retail exposures.  
215. PD estimates must be a long -run average of one -year default rates for borrowers in the grade, 
with the exception of retail exposures as set out in paragraph 233 and 234. Requirements specific to PD 
estimation are provided in paragraphs 229 to 234. Banks on the advan ced approach must estimate an 
appropriate LGD (as defined in paragraphs 235 to 240) for each of its facilities (or retail pools). For 
exposures subject to the advanced approach, banks must also estimate an appropriate long -run default-
weighted average EAD for each of its facilities as defined in paragraphs 241 and 242. Requirements specific 
to EAD estimation appear in paragraphs 241 to 251. For corporate and bank exposures, banks that do not 
meet the requirements for own-estimates of EAD or LGD, above, must  use the supervisory estimates of 
these parameters. Standards for use of such estimates are set out in paragraphs 280 to 29 7. 
216. Internal estimates of PD, LGD, and EAD must incorporate all relevant, material and available data, 
information and methods. A  bank may utilise internal data and data from external sources (including 
pooled data). Where internal or external data is used, the bank must demonstrate that its estimates are 
representative of long run experience. 
217. Estimates must be grounded in hist orical experience and empirical evidence, and not based 
purely on subjective or judgmental considerations. Any changes in lending practice or the process for 
pursuing recoveries over the observation period must be taken into account. A bank’s estimates mus t 
promptly reflect the implications of technical advances and new data and other information, as it becomes 
available. Banks must review their estimates on a yearly basis or more frequently.  
218. The population of exposures represented in the data used for estimation, and lending standards 
in use when the data were generated, and other relevant characteristics should be closely matched to or 
at least comparable with those of the bank’s exposures and standards. The bank must also demonstrate 
that economic o r market conditions that underlie the data are relevant to current and foreseeable 
conditions. For estimates of LGD and EAD, banks must take into account paragraphs 235 to 251. The 
number of exposures in the sample and the data period used for quantification must be sufficient to 
provide the bank with confidence in the accuracy and robustness of its estimates. The estimation technique 
must perform well in out-of-sample tests. 
 
25  Banks are not required to produce their own estimates of PD for exposures subject to the supervisory slotting approach.

[Page 97]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 93 
 
 
219. In general, estimates of PDs, LGDs, and EADs are likely to involve unpredicta ble errors. In order 
to avoid over-optimism, a bank must add to its estimates a margin of conservatism that is related to the 
likely range of errors. Where methods and data are less satisfactory and the likely range of errors is larger, 
the margin of conse rvatism must be larger. Supervisors may allow some flexibility in application of the 
required standards for data that are collected prior to the date of implementation of this Framework. 
However, in such cases banks must demonstrate to their supervisors that appropriate adjustments have 
been made to achieve broad equivalence to the data without such flexibility. Data collected beyond the 
date of implementation must conform to the minimum standards unless otherwise stated.  
(ii) Definition of default 
220. A default is considered to have occurred with regard to a particular obligor when either or both 
of the two following events have taken place. 
• The bank considers that the obligor is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the banking group 
in full, without recourse by the bank to actions such as realising security (if held).  
• The obligor is past due more than 90 days on any material credit obligation to the banking 
group.26 Overdrafts will be considered as being past due once the customer has breached an 
advised limit or been advised of a limit smaller than current outstandings. 
221. The elements to be taken as indications of unlikeliness to pay include: 
• The bank puts the credit obligation on non-accrued status. 
• The bank makes a charge-off or account-specific provision resulting from a significant perceived 
decline in credit quality subsequent to the bank taking on the exposure. 
• The bank sells the credit obligation at a material credit-related economic loss. 
• The bank consents to a distressed restructuring of the  credit obligation where this is likely to 
result in a diminished financial obligation caused by the material forgiveness, or postponement, 
of principal, interest or (where relevant) fees. 
• The bank has filed for the obligor’s bankruptcy or a similar order in respect of the obligor’s credit 
obligation to the banking group. 
• The obligor has sought or has been placed in bankruptcy or similar protection where this would 
avoid or delay repayment of the credit obligation to the banking group. 
222. National supervi sors will provide appropriate guidance as to how these elements must be 
implemented and monitored. 
223. For retail exposures, the definition of default can be applied at the level of a particular facility, 
rather than at the level of the obligor. As such, default by a borrower on one obligation does not require 
a bank to treat all other obligations to the banking group as defaulted.  
224. A bank must record actual defaults on IRB exposure classes using this reference definition. A bank 
must also use the ref erence definition for its estimation of PDs, and (where relevant) LGDs and EADs. In 
arriving at these estimations, a bank may use external data available to it that is not itself consistent with 
that definition, subject to the requirements set out in paragraph 230. However, in such cases, banks must 
demonstrate to their supervisors that appropriate adjustments to the data have been made to achieve 
broad equivalence with the reference definition. This same condition would apply to any internal data used 
up t o implementation of this Framework. Internal data (including that pooled by banks) used in such 
 
26  In the case of retail and PSE obligations, for the 90 days figure, a supervisor may substitute a figure up to 180 days for different 
products, as it considers appropriate to local conditions.

[Page 98]
94 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
estimates beyond the date of implementation of this Framework must be consistent with the reference 
definition.  
225. If the bank considers that a previously de faulted exposure’s status is such that no trigger of the 
reference definition any longer applies, the bank must rate the borrower and estimate LGD as they would 
for a non-defaulted facility. Should the reference definition subsequently be triggered, a seco nd default 
would be deemed to have occurred. 
(iii) Re- ageing 
226. The bank must have clearly articulated and documented policies in respect of the counting of 
days past due, in particular in respect of the re -ageing of the facilities and the granting of extensions, 
deferrals, renewals and rewrites to existing accounts. At a minimum, the re-ageing policy must include: (a) 
approval authorities and reporting requirements; (b) minimum age of a facility before it is eligible for re-
ageing; (c) delinquency levels  of facilities that are eligible for re -ageing; (d) maximum number of re -
ageings per facility; and (e) a reassessment of the borrower’s capacity to repay. These policies must be 
applied consistently over time, and must support the ‘use test’ (ie if a bank treats a re-aged exposure in a 
similar fashion to other delinquent exposures more than the past-due cut off point, this exposure must be 
recorded as in default for IRB purposes).  
(iv) Treatment of overdrafts 
227. Authorised overdrafts must be subject to a  credit limit set by the bank and brought to the 
knowledge of the client. Any break of this limit must be monitored; if the account were not brought under 
the limit after 90 to 180 days (subject to the applicable past -due trigger), it would be considered a s 
defaulted. Non-authorised overdrafts will be associated with a zero limit for IRB purposes. Thus, days past 
due commence once any credit is granted to an unauthorised customer; if such credit were not repaid 
within 90 to 180 days, the exposure would be considered in default. Banks must have in place rigorous 
internal policies for assessing the creditworthiness of customers who are offered overdraft accounts.  
(v) Definition of loss for all asset classes  
228. The definition of loss used in estimating LGD is economic loss. When measuring economic loss, 
all relevant factors should be taken into account. This must include material discount effects and material 
direct and indirect costs associated with collecting on the exposure. Banks must not simply measure the 
loss recorded in accounting records, although they must be able to compare accounting and economic 
losses. The bank’s own workout and collection expertise significantly influences their recovery rates and 
must be reflected in their LGD estimates, but adjustments to estimates for such expertise must be 
conservative until the bank has sufficient internal empirical evidence of the impact of its expertise.  
(vi) Requirements specific to PD estimation 
Corporate and bank exposures 
229. Banks must use informati on and techniques that take appropriate account of the long -run 
experience when estimating the average PD for each rating grade. For example, banks may use one or 
more of the three specific techniques set out below: internal default experience, mapping to external data, 
and statistical default models.  
230. Banks may have a primary technique and use others as a point of comparison and potential 
adjustment. Supervisors will not be satisfied by mechanical application of a technique without supporting 
analysis. Banks must recognise the importance of judgmental considerations in combining results of 
techniques and in making adjustments for limitations of techniques and information.

[Page 99]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 95 
 
 
• A bank may use data on internal default experience for the estimation of PD. A b ank must 
demonstrate in its analysis that the estimates are reflective of underwriting standards and of any 
differences in the rating system that generated the data and the current rating system. Where 
only limited data are available, or where underwriting standards or rating systems have changed, 
the bank must add a greater margin of conservatism in its estimate of PD. The use of pooled data 
across institutions may also be recognised. A bank must demonstrate that the internal rating 
systems and criteria of other banks in the pool are comparable with its own. 
• Banks may associate or map their internal grades to the scale used by an external credit 
assessment institution or similar institution and then attribute the default rate observed for the 
external institution’s grades to the bank’s grades. Mappings must be based on a comparison of 
internal rating criteria to the criteria used by the external institution and on a comparison of the 
internal and external ratings of any common borrowers. Biases or inconsistencies in the mapping 
approach or underlying data must be avoided. The external institution’s criteria underlying the 
data used for quantification must be oriented to the risk of the borrower and not reflect 
transaction characteristics. The bank’s analysis must include a comparison of the default 
definitions used, subject to the requirements in paragraph 220 to 225. The bank must document 
the basis for the mapping. 
• A bank is allowed to use a simple average of default -probability estimates for individual 
borrowers in a given grade, where such estimates are drawn from statistical default prediction 
models. The bank’s use of default probability models for this purpose m ust meet the standards 
specified in paragraph 185.  
For all methods above, banks must estimate a PD for each rating grade based on the observed historical 
average one-year default rate that is a simple average based on number of obligors (count weighted). 
Weighting approaches, such as EAD weighting, are not permitted. 
231. Irrespective of whether a bank is using external, internal, or pooled data sources, or a combination 
of the three, for its PD estimation, the length of the underlying historical observation period used must be 
at least five years for at least one source. If the available observation period spans a longer period for any 
source, and this data are relevant and material, this longer period must be used. The data should include 
a representative mix of good and bad years.  
Retail exposures 
232. Given the bank-specific basis of assigning exposures to pools, banks must regard internal data 
as the primary source of information for estimating loss characteristics. Banks are permitted to use external 
data or statistical models for quantification provided a strong link can be demonstrated between: (a) the 
bank’s process of assigning exposures to a pool and the process used by the external data source; and (b) 
between the bank’s internal risk profile and  the composition of the external data. In all cases banks must 
use all relevant and material data sources as points of comparison.  
233. One method for deriving long -run average estimates of PD and default -weighted average loss 
rates given default (as defined in paragraph 235) for retail would be based on an estimate of the expected 
long-run loss rate. A bank may (i) use an appropriate PD estimate to infer the long -run default-weighted 
average loss rate given default, or (ii) use a long -run default-weighted average loss rate given default to 
infer the appropriate PD. In either case, it is important to recognise that the LGD used for the IRB capital 
calculation cannot be less than the long -run default-weighted average loss rate given default and must 
be consistent with the concepts defined in paragraph 235.  
234. Irrespective of whether banks are using external, internal, pooled data sources, or a combination 
of the three, for their estimation of loss characteristics, the length of the underlying historical observation 
period used must be at least five years. If the available observation spans a longer period for any source, 
and these data are relevant, this longer period must be used. The data should include a representative mix

[Page 100]
96 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
of good and bad years of the ec onomic cycle relevant for the portfolio. The PD should be based on the 
observed historical average one-year default rate.  
(vii) Requirements specific to own-LGD estimates 
Standards for all asset classes 
235. A bank must estimate an LGD for each facility that aims to reflect economic downturn conditions 
where necessary to capture the relevant risks. This LGD cannot be less than the long-run default-weighted 
average loss rate given default calculated based on the average economic loss of all observed default s 
within the data source for that type of facility. In addition, a bank must take into account the potential for 
the LGD of the facility to be higher than the default-weighted average during a period when credit losses 
are substantially higher than average . For certain types of exposures, loss severities may not exhibit such 
cyclical variability and LGD estimates may not differ materially from the long -run default -weighted 
average. However, for other exposures, this cyclical variability in loss severities m ay be important and 
banks will need to incorporate it into their LGD estimates. For this purpose, banks may make reference to 
the averages of loss severities observed during periods of high credit losses, forecasts based on 
appropriately conservative assum ptions, or other similar methods. Appropriate estimates of LGD during 
periods of high credit losses might be formed using either internal and/or external data. Supervisors will 
continue to monitor and encourage the development of appropriate approaches to this issue.  
236. In its analysis, the bank must consider the extent of any dependence between the risk of the 
borrower and that of the collateral or collateral provider. Cases where there is a significant degree of 
dependence must be addressed in a conservative manner. Any currency mismatch between the underlying 
obligation and the collateral must also be considered and treated conservatively in the bank’s assessment 
of LGD.  
237. LGD estimates must be grounded in historical recovery rates and, when applicable, must not 
solely be based on the collateral’s estimated market value. This requirement recognises the potential 
inability of banks to gain both control of their collateral and liquidate it expeditiously. To the extent that 
LGD estimates take into account the existence of collateral, banks must establish internal requirements for 
collateral management, operational procedures, legal certainty and risk management process that are 
generally consistent with those required for the foundation IRB approach.  
238. Recognising the principle that realised losses can at times systematically exceed expected levels, 
the LGD assigned to a defaulted asset should reflect the possibility that the bank would have to recognise 
additional, unexpected losses during the recove ry period. For each defaulted asset, the bank must also 
construct its best estimate of the expected loss on that asset based on current economic circumstances 
and facility status. The amount, if any, by which the LGD on a defaulted asset exceeds the bank’s best 
estimate of expected loss on the asset represents the capital requirement for that asset, and should be set 
by the bank on a risk- sensitive basis in accordance with paragraphs 5 3 and 118 to 120. Instances where 
the best estimate of expected loss on a  defaulted asset is less than the sum of specific provisions and 
partial charge-offs on that asset will attract supervisory scrutiny and must be justified by the bank.  
Additional standards for corporate exposures 
239. Estimates of LGD must be based on a minimum data observation period that should ideally cover 
at least one complete economic cycle but must in any case be no shorter than a period of seven years for 
at least one source. If the available observation period spans a longer period for any source, and the data 
are relevant, this longer period must be used. 
Additional standards for retail exposures 
240. The minimum data observation period for LGD estimates for retail exposures is five years. The 
less data a bank has, the more conservative it must be in its estimation.

[Page 101]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 97 
 
 
(viii) Requirements specific to own-EAD estimates 
Standards for all asset classes 
241. EAD for an on-balance sheet or off-balance sheet item is defined as the expected gross exposure 
of the facility upon default of the obligor. For on-balance sheet items, banks must estimate EAD at no less 
than the current drawn amount, subject to recognising the effects of on-balance sheet netting as specified 
in the foundation approach. The minimum requirements for the recognition of netting are the sa me as 
those under the foundation approach. The additional minimum requirements for internal estimation of 
EAD under the advanced approach, therefore, focus on the estimation of EAD for off- balance sheet items 
(excluding transactions that expose banks to counterparty credit risk as set out in the counterparty credit 
risk standards). Banks using the advanced approach must have established procedures in place for the 
estimation of EAD for off- balance sheet items. These must specify the estimates of EAD to be used for 
each facility type. Banks’ estimates of EAD should reflect the possibility of additional drawings by the 
borrower up to and after the time a default event is triggered. Where estimates of EAD differ by facility 
type, the delineation of these facilities must be clear and unambiguous. 
242. Under the advanced approach, banks must assign an estimate of EAD for each eligible facility. It 
must be an estimate of the long -run default-weighted average EAD for similar facilities and borrowers 
over a sufficiently long period of time, but with a margin of conservatism appropriate to the likely range 
of errors in the estimate. If a positive correlation can reasonably be expected between the default 
frequency and the magnitude of EAD, the EAD estimate must incorporate a larger margin of conservatism. 
Moreover, for exposures for which EAD estimates are volatile over the economic cycle, the bank must use 
EAD estimates that are appropriate for an economic downturn, if these are more conservative than the 
long-run average. For banks that have been able to develop their own EAD models, this could be achieved 
by considering the cyclical nature, if any, of the drivers of such models. Other banks may have sufficient 
internal data to examine the impact of previous recession (s). However, some banks may only have the 
option of making conservative use of external data. Moreover, where a bank bases its estimates on 
alternative measures of central tendency (such as the median or a higher percentile estimate) or only on 
‘downturn’ data, it should explicitly confirm that the basic downturn requirement of the framework is met, 
ie the bank’s estimates do not fall below a (conservative) estimate of the long -run default -weighted 
average EAD for similar facilities. 
243. The criteria by which estimates of EAD are derived must be plausible and intuitive, and represent 
what the bank believes to be the material drivers of EAD. The choices must be supported by credible 
internal analysis by the bank. The bank must be able to provide a breakdown of its EAD experience by the 
factors it sees as the drivers of EAD. A bank must use all relevant and material information in its derivation 
of EAD estimates. Across facility types, a bank must review its estimates of EAD when material new 
information comes to light and at least on an annual basis.  
244. Due consideration must be paid by the bank to its specific policies and strategies adopted in 
respect of account monitoring and payment processing. The bank must also consider its ability and 
willingness to  prevent further drawings in circumstances short of payment default, such as covenant 
violations or other technical default events. Banks must also have adequate systems and procedures in 
place to monitor facility amounts, current outstandings against committed lines and changes in 
outstandings per borrower and per grade. The bank must be able to monitor outstanding balances on a 
daily basis. 
245.  Banks’ EAD estimates must be developed using a 12 -month fixed-horizon approach; ie for each 
observation in the  reference data set, default outcomes must be linked to relevant obligor and facility 
characteristics twelve months prior to default. 
246.  As set out in paragraph 218, banks’ EAD estimates should be based on reference data that reflect 
the obligor, facility and bank management practice characteristics of the exposures to which the estimates

[Page 102]
98 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
are applied. Consistent with this principle, EAD est imates applied to particular exposures should not be 
based on data that comingle the effects of disparate characteristics or data from exposures that exhibit 
different characteristics (eg same broad product grouping but different customers that are managed  
differently by the bank). The estimates should be based on appropriately homogenous segments. 
Alternatively, the estimates should be based on an estimation approach that effectively disentangles the 
impact of the different characteristics exhibited within the relevant dataset. Practices that generally do not 
comply with this principle include use of estimates based or partly based on:  
• SME/midmarket data being applied to large corporate obligors. 
• Data from commitments with ‘small’ unused limit availability being applied to facilities with ‘large’ 
unused limit availability. 
• Data from obligors already identified as problematic at reference date being applied to current 
obligors with no known issues (eg customers at reference date who were already delinquent, 
watchlisted by the bank, subject to recent bank- initiated limit reductions, blocked from further 
drawdowns or subject to other types of collections activity). 
• Data that has been affected by changes in obligors’ mix of borrowing and other credit -related 
products over the observation period unless that data has been effectively mitigated for such 
changes, eg by adjusting the data to remove the effects of the changes in the product mix. 
Supervisors should expect banks to demonstrate a detailed understanding of the impact of 
changes in customer product mix on EAD reference data sets (and associated EAD estimates) and 
that the impact is immaterial or has been effectively mitigated within each bank’s estimation 
process. Banks’ analyses in this regard should be acti vely challenged by supervisors. Effective 
mitigation would not include: setting floors to CCF/EAD observations; use of obligor -level 
estimates that do not fully cover the relevant product transformation options or inappropriately 
combine products with very different characteristics (eg revolving and non -revolving products); 
adjusting only ‘material’ observations affected by product transformation; generally excluding 
observations affected by product profile transformation (thereby potentially distorting the  
representativeness of the remaining data). 
247. A well-known feature of the commonly used undrawn limit factor (ULF) approach27 to estimating 
CCFs is the region of instability associated with facilities close to being fully drawn at reference date. Banks 
should ensure that their EAD estimates are effectively quarantined from the potential effects of this region 
of instability. 
• An acceptable approach could include using an estimation method other than the ULF approach 
that avoids the instability issue by not using potentially small undrawn limits that could approach 
zero in the denominator or, as appropriate, switching to a method other than the ULF as the 
region of instability is approached, eg a limit factor, balance factor or additional utilisation factor 
approach.28 Note that, consistent with paragraph 246, including limit utilisation as a driver in EAD 
models could quarantine much of the relevant portfolio from this issue but, in the absence of 
 
27  A specific type of CCF, where predicted additional drawings in the lead -up to default are expressed as a percentage of the 
undrawn limit that remains available to the obligor under the terms and conditions of a facility, ie EAD=B0=Bt+ULF[Lt –Bt], 
where B0 = facility balance at date of default; Bt = current balance (for predicted EAD) or balance at reference date (for observed 
EAD); Lt = current limit (for predicted EAD) or limit at reference date (for realised/observed EAD). 
28  A limit factor (LF) is a specific type of CCF, where the predicted balance at default is expressed as a percentage of the total limit 
that is available to the obligor under the terms and conditions of a credit facility, ie EAD=B0= LF[Lt], where B0 = facility balance 
at date of default; Bt = current balance (for predicted EAD) or balance at reference date (for observed EAD); Lt = current limit 
(for predicted EAD) or limit at reference date (for realised/observed EAD). A balance factor (BF) is a specific type of CCF, where 
the predicted balance at default is expressed as a percentage of the current balance that has been drawn down under a credit 
facility, ie EAD=B0=BF[Bt]. An additional utilisation factor (AUF) is a specific type of CCF, where predicted additional drawings 
in the lead-up to default are expressed as a percentage of the total limit that is available to the obligor under the terms and 
conditions of a credit facility, ie EAD = B0 = Bt + AUF[Lt].

[Page 103]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 99 
 
 
other actions, leaves open how to develop appropriate EAD estimates to be applied to exposures 
within the region of instability.  
• Common but ineffective approaches to mitigating this issue include capping and flooring 
reference data (eg observed CCFs at 100 per cent and zero respectively) or omitting observations 
that are judged to be affected. 
248. EAD reference data must not be capped to the principal amount outstanding or facility limits. 
Accrued interest, other due payments and limit excesses should be included in EAD reference data.  
249. For transactions that ex pose banks to counterparty credit risk, estimates of EAD must fulfil the 
requirements set forth in the counterparty credit risk standards. 
Additional standards for corporate exposures 
250. Estimates of EAD must be based on a time period that must ideally c over a complete economic 
cycle but must in any case be no shorter than a period of seven years. If the available observation period 
spans a longer period for any source, and the data are relevant, this longer period must be used. EAD 
estimates must be calculated using a default-weighted average and not a time-weighted average. 
Additional standards for retail exposures 
251. The minimum data observation period for EAD estimates for retail exposures is five years. The 
less data a bank has, the more conservativ e it must be in its estimation. A bank need not give equal 
importance to historic data if it can demonstrate to its supervisor that more recent data are a better 
predictor of drawdowns.  
(ix) Minimum requirements for assessing effect of guarantees and credit derivatives 
Standards for corporate exposures where own estimates of LGD are used and standards for retail 
exposures 
Guarantees 
252. When a bank uses its own estimates of LGD, it may reflect the risk-mitigating effect of guarantees 
through an adjustment to PD or LGD estimates. The option to adjust LGDs is available only to those banks 
that have been approved to use their own internal estimates of LGD. For retail exposures, where guarantees 
exist, either in support of an individual obligation or a pool of exposures, a bank may reflect the risk-
reducing effect either through its estimates of PD or LGD, provided this is done consistently. In adopting 
one or the other technique, a bank must adopt a consistent approach, both across types of guarantees 
and over time. 
253. In all cases, both the borrower and all recognised guarantors must be assigned a borrower rating 
at the outset and on an ongoing basis. A bank must follow all minimum requirements for assigning 
borrower ratings set out in this document, including the regular monitoring of the guarantor’s condition 
and ability and willingness to honour its obligations. Consistent with the requirements in paragraphs 198 
and 199, a bank must retain all relevant information on the borrower absent the guarantee and t he 
guarantor. In the case of retail guarantees, these requirements also apply to the assignment of an exposure 
to a pool, and the estimation of PD. 
254. In no case can the bank assign the guaranteed exposure an adjusted PD or LGD such that the 
adjusted risk weight would be lower than that of a comparable, direct exposure to the guarantor. Neither 
criteria nor rating processes are permitted to consider possible favourable effects of imperfect expected 
correlation between default events for the borrower and g uarantor for purposes of regulatory minimum 
capital requirements. As such, the adjusted risk weight must not reflect the risk mitigation of “double 
default.”

[Page 104]
100 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
255. In case the bank applies the standardised approach to direct exposures to the guarantor, the  
guarantee may only be recognised by treating the covered portion of the exposure as a direct exposure 
to the guarantor under the standardised approach. Similarly, in case the bank applies the F -IRB approach 
to direct exposures to the guarantor, the guaran tee may only be recognised by applying the F -IRB 
approach to the covered portion of the exposure. Alternatively, banks may choose to not recognise the 
effect of guarantees on their exposures. 
Eligible guarantors and guarantees 
256. There are no restrictions on the types of eligible guarantors. The bank must, however, have clearly 
specified criteria for the types of guarantors it will recognise for regulatory capital purposes.  
257. The guarantee must be evidenced in writing, non- cancellable on the part of th e guarantor, in 
force until the debt is satisfied in full (to the extent of the amount and tenor of the guarantee) and legally 
enforceable against the guarantor in a jurisdiction where the guarantor has assets to attach and enforce a 
judgement. The guarantee must also be unconditional; there should be no clause in the protection contract 
outside the direct control of the bank that could prevent the protection provider from being obliged to 
pay out in a timely manner in the event that the original counterparty fails to make the payment(s) due. 
However, as an exception for the purposes of own estimates of EAD under the A-IRB, guarantees that only 
cover loss remaining after the bank has first pursued the original obligor for payment and has completed 
the workout process may be recognised. 
258. In case of guarantees where the bank applies the standardised approach to the covered portion 
of the exposure, the scope of guarantors and the minimum requirements as under the standardised 
approach apply. 
Adjustment criteria 
259. A bank must have clearly specified criteria for adjusting borrower grades or LGD estimates (or in 
the case of retail and eligible purchased receivables, the process of allocating exposures to pools) to reflect 
the impact of guarantees for regulatory capital purposes. These criteria must be as detailed as the criteria 
for assigning exposures to grades consistent with paragraphs 177 and 178, and must follow all minimum 
requirements for assigning borrower or facility ratings set out in this document.  
260. The criteria must be plausible and intuitive, and must address the guarantor’s ability and 
willingness to perform under the guarantee. The criteria must also address the likely timing of any 
payments and the degree to which the guarantor’s abili ty to perform under the guarantee is correlated 
with the borrower’s ability to repay. The bank’s criteria must also consider the extent to which residual risk 
to the borrower remains, for example a currency mismatch between the guarantee and the underlying  
exposure.  
261. In adjusting borrower grades or LGD estimates (or in the case of retail and eligible purchased 
receivables, the process of allocating exposures to pools), banks must take all relevant available 
information into account.  
Credit derivatives 
262. The minimum requirements for guarantees are relevant also for single -name credit derivatives.  
Additional considerations arise in respect of asset mismatches. The criteria used for assigning adjusted 
borrower grades or LGD estimates (or pools) for exposures hedged with credit derivatives must require 
that the asset on which the protection is based (the reference asset) cannot be different from the 
underlying asset, unless the conditions outlined in the foundation approach are met.  
263. In addition, the  criteria must address the payout structure of the credit derivative and 
conservatively assess the impact this has on the level and timing of recoveries. The bank must also consider 
the extent to which other forms of residual risk remain.

[Page 105]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 101 
 
 
For banks using foundation LGD estimates 
264. The minimum requirements outlined in paragraphs 252 to 263 apply to banks using the 
foundation LGD estimates with the following exceptions: 
(i) The bank is not able to use an ‘LGD-adjustment’ option; and 
(ii) The range of eligible guarantees and guarantors is limited to those outlined in paragraph 92.  
(x) Requirements specific to estimating PD and LGD (or EL) for qualifying purchased 
receivables 
265. The following minimum requirements for risk quantification must be satisfied for any pu rchased 
receivables (corporate or retail) making use of the top -down treatment of default risk and/or the IRB 
treatments of dilution risk.  
266. The purchasing bank will be required to group the receivables into sufficiently homogeneous 
pools so that accurate and consistent estimates of PD and LGD (or EL) for default losses and EL estimates 
of dilution losses can be determined. In general, the risk bucketing process will reflect the seller’s 
underwriting practices and the heterogeneity of its customers. In addition, methods and data for 
estimating PD, LGD, and EL must comply with the existing risk quantification standards for retail exposures. 
In particular, quantification should reflect all information available to the purchasing bank regarding the 
quality of the underlying receivables, including data for similar pools provided by the seller, by the 
purchasing bank, or by external sources. The purchasing bank must determine whether the data provided 
by the seller are consistent with expectations agreed upon by both parties concerning, for example, the 
type, volume and on -going quality of receivables purchased. Where this is not the case, the purchasing 
bank is expected to obtain and rely upon more relevant data.  
Minimum operational requirements  
267. A bank purchasing receivables has to justify confidence that current and future advances can be 
repaid from the liquidation of (or collections against) the receivables pool. To qualify for the top -down 
treatment of default risk, the receivable pool and overall lending relationship should be closely monitored 
and controlled. Specifically, a bank will have to demonstrate the following: 
Legal certainty 
268. The structure of the facility must ensure that under all foreseeable circumstances the bank has 
effective ownership and control of the cash remittances from the receivables, including incidences of seller 
or servicer distress and bankruptcy. When the obligor makes payments directly to a seller or servicer, the 
bank must verify regularly that payments are forwarded completely and within the contractually agreed 
terms. As well, ownership over the receivables and cash receipts should be protected against bankruptcy 
‘stays’ or legal challenges that could materially delay the lender’s ability to liquidate/assign the receivables 
or retain control over cash receipts.  
Effectiveness of monitoring systems 
269. The bank must be able to monitor both the quality of the receivables and the financial condition 
of the seller and servicer. In particular: 
• The bank must (a) assess the correlation among the quality of the receivables and the financial 
condition of both the seller and servicer, and (b) have in place internal policies and procedures 
that provide adequate safeguards to protect against such contingencies, including the 
assignment of an internal risk rating for each seller and servicer.  
• The bank must have clear and effective policies and procedures for determining seller and 
servicer eligibility. The bank or its agent must conduct periodic reviews of sellers and servicers in

[Page 106]
102 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
order to verify the accuracy of reports from the seller/servicer, detect fraud or operational 
weaknesses, and verify the quality of the seller’s credit policies and servicer’s collection policies 
and procedures. The findings of these reviews must be well documented. 
• The bank must have the ability to assess the characteristics of the receivables pool, including: (a) 
over-advances; (b) history of the seller’s arrears, bad debts, and bad debt allowances; (c) payment 
terms; and (d) potential contra accounts.  
• The bank must have effective policies and procedures for monitoring on an aggregate basis 
single-obligor concentrations both within and across receivables pools.  
• The bank must receive timely and sufficiently detailed reports of receivables ageings and dilutions 
to (a) ensure compliance with the bank’s eligibility criteria and advancing policies governing 
purchased receivables, and (b) provide an effective means with which to monitor and confirm the 
seller’s terms of sale (eg invoice date ageing) and dilution.  
Effectiveness of work-out systems 
270. An effective programme requires systems and procedures not only for detecting deterioration in 
the seller’s financial condition and deterioration in the quality of the receivables at an early stage, but also 
for addressing emerging problems pro-actively. In particular,  
• The bank should have clear and effective policies, procedures, and information systems to 
monitor compliance with (a) all contractual terms of the facility (including covenants, advancing 
formulas, concentration limits, early amortisation triggers, etc) as well as (b) the bank’s internal 
policies governing advance rates and receivables eligibility. The bank’s systems should track 
covenant violations and waivers as well as exceptions to established policies and procedures. 
• To limit inappropriate draws, the bank should have effective policies and procedures for 
detecting, approving, monitoring, and correcting over-advances. 
• The bank should have effective policies and procedures for dealing with financi ally weakened 
sellers or servicers and/or deterioration in the quality of receivable pools. These include, but are 
not necessarily limited to, early termination triggers in revolving facilities and other covenant 
protections, a structured and disciplined approach to dealing with covenant violations, and clear 
and effective policies and procedures for initiating legal actions and dealing with problem 
receivables.  
Effectiveness of systems for controlling collateral, credit availability, and cash 
271. The ban k must have clear and effective policies and procedures governing the control of 
receivables, credit, and cash. In particular,  
• Written internal policies must specify all material elements of the receivables purchase 
programme, including the advancing rate s, eligible collateral, necessary documentation, 
concentration limits, and how cash receipts are to be handled. These elements should take 
appropriate account of all relevant and material factors, including the seller’s/servicer’s financial 
condition, risk  concentrations, and trends in the quality of the receivables and the seller’s 
customer base.  
• Internal systems must ensure that funds are advanced only against specified supporting collateral 
and documentation (such as servicer attestations, invoices, shipping documents, etc). 
Compliance with the bank’s internal policies and procedures 
272. Given the reliance on monitoring and control systems to limit credit risk, the bank should have 
an effective internal process for assessing compliance with all critical policies and procedures, including

[Page 107]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 103 
 
 
• regular internal and/or external audits of all critical phases of the bank’s receivables purchase 
programme. 
• verification of the separation of duties (i) between the assessment of the seller/servicer and the 
assessment of the obligor and (ii) between the assessment of the seller/servicer and the field 
audit of the seller/servicer.  
273. A bank’s effective internal process for assessing compliance with all critical policies and 
procedures should also include evaluations of back office operations, with particular focus on 
qualifications, experience, staffing levels, and supporting systems. 
8. Validation of internal estimates 
274. Banks must have a robust system in place to validate the accuracy and consistency of rating 
systems, processes, and the estimation of all relevant risk components. A bank must demonstrate to its 
supervisor that the internal validation process enables it to assess the performance of internal rating and 
risk estimation systems consistently and meaningfully. 
275. Banks must regularly compare realised default rates with estimated PDs for each grade and be 
able to demonstrate that the realised default rates are within the expected range for that grade. Banks 
using the advanced IRB approach must complete such analysis for their estimates of LGDs and EADs. Such 
comparisons must make use of historical data that are over as long a period as possible. The methods and 
data used in such comparisons by the bank must be clearly documented by the bank. This analysis  and 
documentation must be updated at least annually.  
276. Banks must also use other quantitative validation tools and comparisons with relevant external 
data sources. The analysis must be based on data that are appropriate to the portfolio, are updated 
regularly, and cover a relevant observation period. Banks’ internal assessments of the performance of their 
own rating systems must be based on long data histories, covering a range of economic conditions, and 
ideally one or more complete business cycles. 
277. Banks must demonstrate that quantitative testing methods and other validation methods do not 
vary systematically with the economic cycle. Changes in methods and data (both data sources and periods 
covered) must be clearly and thoroughly documented. 
278. Banks must have well -articulated internal standards for situations where deviations in realised 
PDs, LGDs and EADs from expectations become significant enough to call the validity of the estimates into 
question. These standards must take account of business cycles and similar systematic variability in default 
experiences. Where realised values continue to be higher than expected values, banks must revise 
estimates upward to reflect their default and loss experience.  
279. Where banks rely on supervisory, rather than internal, estimates of risk parameters, they are 
encouraged to compare realised LGDs and EADs to those set by the supervisors. The information on 
realised LGDs and EADs should form part of the bank’s assessment of economic capital.  
9. Supervisory LGD and EAD estimates 
280. Banks under the foundation IRB approach, which do not meet the requirements for own-
estimates of LGD and EAD, above, must meet the minimum requirements described in the standardised 
approach to receive recognition for eligible  financial collateral (as set out in the credit risk mitigation 
section (S ection D) of the standardised approach). They must meet the following additional minimum 
requirements in order to receive recognition for additional collateral types.

[Page 108]
104 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(i) Definition of eligibility of CRE and RRE as collateral 
281. Eligible CRE and RRE collateral for corporate and bank exposures are defined as:  
• Collateral where the risk of the borrower is not materially dependent upon the performance of 
the underlying property or project, but rather on the underlying capacity of the borrower to repay 
the debt from other sources. As such, repayment of the facility is not materially dependent on 
any cash flow generated by the underlying CRE/RRE serving as collateral; 29 and  
• Additionally, the value of the collateral pledged must not be materially dependent on the 
performance of the borrower. This requirement is not intended to preclude situations where 
purely macro-economic factors affect both the value of the collateral and the performance of the 
borrower. 
282. In light of the generic description above and the definition of corporate exposures, income 
producing real estate that falls under the SL asset class is specifically excluded from recognition as 
collateral for corporate exposures.30  
(ii) Operational requirements for eligible CRE/RRE 
283. Subject to meeting the definition above, CRE and RRE will be eligible for recognition as collateral 
for corporate claims only if all of the following operational requirements are met.  
• Legal enfor ceability: any claim on collateral taken must be legally enforceable in all relevant 
jurisdictions, and any claim on collateral must be properly filed on a timely basis. Collateral 
interests must reflect a perfected lien (ie all legal requirements for establishing the claim have 
been fulfilled). Furthermore, the collateral agreement and the legal process underpinning it must 
be such that they provide for the bank to realise the value of the collateral within a reasonable 
timeframe. 
• Objective market value of collateral: the collateral must be valued at or less than the current fair 
value under which the property could be sold under private contract between a willing seller and 
an arm’s-length buyer on the date of valuation.  
 
29  The Committee recognises that in some countries where multifamily housing makes up an important part of the housing market 
and where public policy is supportive of that sector, including specially established public sector companies as major providers, 
the risk characteristics of lending secured by mortgage on such residential real estate can be similar to those of traditional 
corporate exposures. The national supervisor may under such circumstances recognise mortgage on multifamily residential 
real estate as eligible collateral for corporate exposures. 
30  In exceptional circumstance s for well -developed and long -established markets, mortgages on office and/or multi- purpose 
commercial premises and/or multi-tenanted commercial premises may have the potential to receive recognition as collateral 
in the corporate portfolio. This exceptional treatment will be subject to very strict conditions. In particular, two tests must be 
fulfilled, namely that (i) losses stemming from commercial real estate lending up to the lower of 50% of the market value or 
60% of loan-to value (LTV) based on mortga ge-lending-value (MLV) must not exceed 0.3% of the outstanding loans in any 
given year; and that (ii) overall losses stemming from commercial real estate lending must not exceed 0.5% of the outstanding 
loans in any given year. This is, if either of these t ests is not satisfied in a given year, the eligibility to use this treatment will 
cease and the original eligibility criteria would need to be satisfied again before it could be applied in the future. Countr ies 
applying such a treatment must publicly disclose that these are met.

[Page 109]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 105 
 
 
• Frequent revaluation: the bank is expected to monitor the value of the collateral on a frequent 
basis and at a minimum once every year. More frequent monitoring is suggested where the 
market is subject to significant changes in conditions. Statistical methods of evaluation (eg 
reference to  house price indices, sampling) may be used to update estimates or to identify 
collateral that may have declined in value and that may need re-appraisal. A qualified professional 
must evaluate the property when information indicates that the value of the c ollateral may have 
declined materially relative to general market prices or when a credit event, such as default, 
occurs.  
• Junior liens: In some member countries, eligible collateral will be restricted to situations where 
the lender has a first charge over  the property.31 Junior liens may be taken into account where 
there is no doubt that the claim for collateral is legally enforceable and constitutes an efficient 
credit risk mitigant. Where junior liens are recognised the bank must first take the haircut va lue 
of the collateral, then reduce it by the sum of all loans with liens that rank higher than the junior 
lien, the remaining value is the collateral that supports the loan with the junior lien. In cases where 
liens are held by third parties that rank pari  passu with the lien of the bank, only the proportion 
of the collateral (after the application of haircuts and reductions due to the value of loans with 
liens that rank higher than the lien of the bank) that is attributable to the bank may be recognised.  
284. Additional collateral management requirements are as follows: 
• The types of CRE and RRE collateral accepted by the bank and lending policies (advance rates) 
when this type of collateral is taken must be clearly documented. 
• The bank must take steps to ensure that the property taken as collateral is adequately insured 
against damage or deterioration. 
• The bank must monitor on an ongoing basis the extent of any permissible prior claims (eg tax) 
on the property.  
• The bank must appropriately monitor the risk of environmental liability arising in respect of the 
collateral, such as the presence of toxic material on a property. 
(iii) Requirements for recognition of financial receivables 
Definition of eligible receivables 
285. Eligible financial receivables are claims with an original maturity of less than or equal to one year 
where repayment will occur through the commercial or financial flows related to the underlying assets of 
the borrower. This includes both self- liquidating debt arising from the sale of goods or services linked to 
a commercial transaction and general amounts owed by buyers, suppliers, renters, national and local 
governmental authorities, or other non-affiliated parties not related to the sale of goods or services linked 
to a commercial transaction. Eligible receivables do not include those associated with securitisations, sub-
participations or credit derivatives. 
Operational requirements  
Legal certainty 
286. The legal mechanism by which collateral is given must be robust and ensure that the lender has 
clear rights over the proceeds from the collateral.  
 
31  In some of these jurisdictions, first liens are subject to the prior right of preferential creditors, such as outstanding tax claims 
and employees’ wages.

[Page 110]
106 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
287. Banks must take all steps necessary to fulfil local requirements in respect of the enforceability of 
security interest, eg by registering a security interest with a registrar. There should be a framework that 
allows the potential lender to have a perfected first priority claim over the collateral.  
288. All documentation used in collateralised transactions must be binding on all parties and legally 
enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions. B anks must have conducted sufficient legal review to verify this 
and have a well -founded legal basis to reach this conclusion, and undertake such further review as 
necessary to ensure continuing enforceability. 
289. The collateral arrangements must be prope rly documented, with a clear and robust procedure 
for the timely collection of collateral proceeds. Banks’ procedures should ensure that any legal conditions 
required for declaring the default of the customer and timely collection of collateral are observe d. In the 
event of the obligor’s financial distress or default, the bank should have legal authority to sell or assign 
the receivables to other parties without consent of the receivables’ obligors.  
Risk management 
290. The bank must have a sound process f or determining the credit risk in the receivables. Such a 
process should include, among other things, analyses of the borrower’s business and industry (eg effects 
of the business cycle) and the types of customers with whom the borrower does business. Where the bank 
relies on the borrower to ascertain the credit risk of the customers, the bank must review the borrower’s 
credit policy to ascertain its soundness and credibility.  
291. The margin between the amount of the exposure and the value of the receivables must reflect all 
appropriate factors, including the cost of collection, concentration within the receivables pool pledged by 
an individual borrower, and potential concentration risk within the bank’s total exposures.  
292. The bank must maintain a conti nuous monitoring process that is appropriate for the specific 
exposures (either immediate or contingent) attributable to the collateral to be utilised as a risk mitigant. 
This process may include, as appropriate and relevant, ageing reports, control of trade documents, 
borrowing base certificates, frequent audits of collateral, confirmation of accounts, control of the proceeds 
of accounts paid, analyses of dilution (credits given by the borrower to the issuers) and regular financial 
analysis of both the borrower and the issuers of the receivables, especially in the case when a small number 
of large-sized receivables are taken as collateral. Observance of the bank’s overall concentration limits 
should be monitored. Additionally, compliance with loan covenants, environmental restrictions, and other 
legal requirements should be reviewed on a regular basis. 
293. The receivables pledged by a borrower should be diversified and not be unduly correlated with 
the borrower. Where the correlation is high, eg where some issuers of the receivables are reliant on the 
borrower for their viability or the borrower and the issuers belong to a common industry, the attendant 
risks should be taken into account in the setting of margins for the collateral pool as a whole. Receivables 
from affiliates of the borrower (including subsidiaries and employees) will not be recognised as risk 
mitigants. 
294. The bank should have a documented process for collecting receivable payments in distressed 
situations. The requisite facilities for collection should be in place, even when the bank normally looks to 
the borrower for collections. 
Requirements for recognition of other physical collateral  
295. Supervisors may allow for recognition of the credit risk mitigating effect of certain other physical 
collateral when the following conditions are met:  
• The bank demonstrates to the satisfaction of the supervisor that there are liquid markets for 
disposal of collateral in an expeditious and economically efficient manner. Banks must carry out

[Page 111]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 107 
 
 
a reassess ment of this condition both periodically and when information indicates material 
changes in the market. 
• The bank demonstrates to the satisfaction of the supervisor that there are well established, 
publicly available market prices for the collateral. Banks must also demonstrate that the amount 
they receive when collateral is realised does not deviate significantly from these market prices.  
296. In order for a given bank to receive recognition for additional physical collateral, it must meet all 
the standards in paragraphs 283 and 284, subject to the following modifications.  
• First Claim: With the sole exception of permissible prior claims specified in footnote 31, only first 
liens on, or charges over, collateral are permissible. As such, the bank must have p riority over all 
other lenders to the realised proceeds of the collateral.  
• The loan agreement must include detailed descriptions of the collateral and the right to examine 
and revalue the collateral whenever this is deemed necessary by the lending bank.  
• The types of physical collateral accepted by the bank and policies and practices in respect of the 
appropriate amount of each type of collateral relative to the exposure amount must be clearly 
documented in internal credit policies and procedures and available for examination and/or audit 
review. 
• Bank credit policies with regard to the transaction structure must address appropriate collateral 
requirements relative to the exposure amount, the ability to liquidate the collateral readily, the 
ability to establish objectively a price or market value, the frequency with which the value can 
readily be obtained (including a professional appraisal or valuation), and the volatility of the value 
of the collateral. The periodic revaluation process must pay particular attention to “fashion -
sensitive” collateral to ensure that valuations are appropriately adjusted downward of fashion, or 
model-year, obsolescence as well as physical obsolescence or deterioration.  
• In cases of inventories (eg raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods, dealers’ inventories of 
autos) and equipment, the periodic revaluation process must include physical inspection of the 
collateral. 
297.  General Security Agreements, and other forms of floating charge, can provide the lending bank 
with a registered claim over a company’s assets. In cases where the registered claim includes both assets 
that are not eligible as collateral under the F-IRB and assets that are eligible as collateral under the F-IRB, 
the bank may recognise the latter. Recognition  is conditional on the claims meeting the operational 
requirements set out paragraphs 280 to 296. 
10. Requirements for recognition of leasing  
298. Leases other than those that expose the bank to residual value risk (see paragraph 299) will be 
accorded the same treatment as exposures collateralised by the same type of collateral. The minimum 
requirements for the collateral type must be met (CRE/RRE or other collateral). In addition, the bank must 
also meet the following standards: 
• Robust risk management on the part of the lessor with respect to the location of the asset, the 
use to which it is put, its age, and planned obsolescence; 
• A robust legal framework establishing the lessor’s legal ownership of the asset and its ability to 
exercise its rights as owner in a timely fashion; and 
• The difference between the rate of depreciation of the physical asset and the rate of amortisation 
of the lease payments must not be so large as to overstate the CRM attributed to the leased 
assets.

[Page 112]
108 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
299. Leases that expose the bank to residual value risk will be treated in the following manner. Residual 
value risk is the bank’s exposure to potential loss due to the fair value of the equipment declining below 
its residual estimate at lease inception.  
• The discounted lease payment st ream will receive a risk weight appropriate for the lessee’s 
financial strength (PD) and supervisory or own-estimate of LGD, whichever is appropriate.  
• The residual value will be risk-weighted at 100%. 
11. Disclosure requirements 
300. In order to be eligible for the IRB approach, banks must meet the disclosure requirements set out 
in Pillar 3. These are minimum requirements for use of IRB: failure to meet these will render banks ineligible 
to use the relevant IRB approach.

[Page 113]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 109 
 
 
Minimum capital requirements for CVA risk  
A. General provisions 
1. In the context of this document, CVA stands for credit valuation adjustment specified at a 
counterparty level. CVA reflects the adjustment of default risk -free prices of derivatives and securities  
financing transactions (SFTs) as defined in paragraphs 4 and 5 of Annex 4 of the Basel II framework 1 due 
to a potential default of the counterparty. Regulatory CVA may differ from CVA used for accounting 
purposes as follows: (i) regulatory CVA excludes the effect of the bank’s own default; (ii) several constraints 
reflecting best practice in accounting CVA are imposed on calculations of regulatory CVA, so some banks 
may find that regulatory CVA deviates from their accounting CVA. Unless explicitly specifie d otherwise, 
the term “CVA” in this document means “regulatory CVA”. 
2. CVA risk is defined as the risk of losses arising from changing CVA values in response to changes 
in counterparty credit spreads and market risk factors that drive prices of derivative transactions and SFTs.  
3. The capital requirement for CVA risk must be calculated by all banks involved in covered 
transactions. Covered transactions include all derivatives except those transacted directly with  a qualified 
central counterparty. Furthermore, covered transactions also include SFTs that are fair -valued by a bank 
for accounting purposes.  
4. The CVA risk capital requirement is calculated for a bank’s “CVA portfolio” on a standalone basis. 
The CVA portfolio includes CVA for a bank’s entire po rtfolio of covered transactions and eligible CVA 
hedges.  
5. Two approaches are available for calculating CVA capital: the standardised approach (SA -CVA) 
and the basic approach (BA -CVA). Banks must use the BA -CVA unless they receive approval from their 
relevant supervisory authority to use the SA-CVA.2  
6. Banks that have received approval of their supervisory authority to use the SA -CVA may carve 
out from the SA-CVA calculations any number of netting sets. CVA capital for all carved out netting sets 
must be calculated via the BA-CVA.  
7. A materiality threshold is established. Any bank whose aggregate notional amount of non-
centrally cleared derivatives is less than or equal to 100 billion euro is deemed as being below the 
materiality threshold. Any bank below the materiality threshold may choose to set its CVA capital equal to 
100% of the bank’s capital requirement for counterparty credit risk (CCR). CVA hedges are not recognised 
under this treatment. If chosen, this treatment must be applied to the bank’s entire portfolio instead of 
the BA-CVA or the SA-CVA. A bank’s relevant supervisory authority, however, can remove this option if it 
determines that CVA risk resulting from the bank’s derivative positions materially contributes to the bank’s 
overall risk.  
8. Eligibility criteria for CVA hedges are specified in paragraphs 15  to 17 for the BA -CVA and in 
paragraphs 36 to 38 for the SA-CVA.  
9. CVA hedging instruments can be external (ie with an external counterparty) or internal (ie with 
one of the bank’s trading desks). 
 
1  See Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Basel II: International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards 
– Comprehensive Version, June 2006, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs128.htm. 
2  Note that this is in contrast to the revised market risk framework, where bank s do not need supervisory approval to use the 
standardised approach.

[Page 114]
110 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• All external CVA hedges (whether eligible or not) that are covered transactions must be included 
in the CVA calculation for the counterparty to the hedge. 
• All eligible external CVA hedges must be excluded from a bank’s market risk capital c harge 
calculations in the trading book. 
• Non-eligible external CVA hedges are treated as trading book instruments and are capitalised via 
the revised market risk standard.3 
• An internal CVA hedge involves two perfectly offsetting positions: one of the CVA de sk and the 
opposite position of the trading desk.  
− If an internal CVA hedge is ineligible, both positions belong to the trading book where they 
cancel each other, so there is no impact on either CVA portfolio or the trading book.  
− If an internal CVA hedge is eligible, the CVA desk’s position is part of the CVA portfolio where 
it is capitalised via the revised CVA framework, while the trading desk’s position is part of the 
trading book where it is capitalised via the revised market risk standard.  
• If an internal CVA hedge involves an instrument that is subject to curvature risk, default risk 
charge or the residual risk add -on under the standardis ed approach of the revised market risk 
standard, it can be eligible only if the trading desk that is the CVA desk’s “counterparty” executes 
a transaction with an external counterparty that exactly offsets the trading desk’s position with 
the CVA desk.  
10. Banks that use the BA-CVA or the SA-CVA for calculating CVA capital requirements may cap the 
maturity adjustment factor at 1 for all netting sets contributing to CVA capital when they calculate CCR 
capital under the Internal Ratings Based (IRB) approach.  
B. Basic Approach for CVA 
1. General provisions 
11. The BA-CVA calculations may be performed either via the reduced version or the full version. The 
full version recognises counterparty spread hedges and is intended for banks that hedge CVA risk. The 
reduced version is obtained from the full version via elimination of hedging recognition. The reduced 
version is design ed to simplify BA -CVA implementation for less sophisticated banks that do not hedge 
CVA. The reduced BA -CVA is also part of the full BA -CVA capital calculations as a conservative means to 
restrict hedging efficiency, so all banks using the BA -CVA must make these calculations. Any bank under 
the BA-CVA approach can choose whether to implement the full version or the reduced version.  
2. Reduced version of the BA-CVA (hedges are not recognised) 
12.  The capital requirement for CVA risk under the reduced versi on of the BA -CVA ( Kreduced) is 
calculated as follows, where the summations are taken over all counterparties that are within scope of the 
CVA charge: 
( )ρρ= ⋅ +−
 ∑ ⋅∑ reduced c c
cc
K SCVA SCVA
2
221  
 
3  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Minimum capital requirements for market risk, January 2016, www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/
d352.pdf.

[Page 115]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 111 
 
 
where: 
• SCVAc is the CVA capital requirement that counterparty c would receive if considered on a stand-
alone basis (referred to as “stand-alone CVA capital” below). See paragraph 13 for its calculation. 
• ρ= 50%. It is the supervisory correlation parameter. Its square, ρ2=25%, represents the correlation 
between credit spreads of any two counterparties. 4 In the formula above, the effect of ρ is to 
recognise the fact that the CVA risk to which a bank is exposed is less that the sum of the CVA 
risk for each counterparty, given that the credit spreads of counterparties are typically not 
perfectly correlated. 
The first term under the square root in the formula above aggregates the systematic components 
of CVA risk, and the second term under the square root aggregates the idiosyncratic components 
of CVA risk. 
13. The stand-alone CVA capital for counterparty c that is used in the formula in paragraph 12 (SCVAc) 
is calculated as follows (where the summation is across all netting sets with the counterparty):  
α
= ⋅ ⋅⋅⋅∑  c c NS NS NS
NS
SCVA RW M EAD DF1  
where:  
• RWc is the risk weight for counterparty c that reflects the volatility of its credit spread. These risk 
weights are based on a combination of sector and credit quality of the counterparty as prescribed 
in paragraph 14.  
• MNS is the effective maturity for the netting set NS. For banks that have supervisory approval to 
use IMM (internal models method) , MNS is calculated as per paragraphs 38 and 39 of Annex 4 of 
the Basel II framework, with the exception that the five year cap in paragraph 38 is not applied. 
For banks that do not have supervisory approval to use IMM, MNS is calculated according to 
paragraphs 320 to 323 of the Basel II framework, with the exception that the five year cap in 
paragraph 320 is not applied.  
• EADNS is the exposure at default (EAD) of the netting set NS, calculated in the same way as the 
bank calculates it for minimum capital requirements for CCR. 
• DFNS is a supervisory discount factor. It is 1 for banks using the (IMM to calculate EAD, and is 
−⋅
−
⋅
.
.
NSM
NS
e
M
0 05
1
0 05
 for banks not using IMM.5 
• α = 1.4.6  
14. The supervisory risk weights  (RWC) are given in the tables below. Credit q uality is specified as 
either investment grade (IG), high yield (HY), or not rated (NR). Where there are no external ratings or 
where external ratings are not recognised within a jurisdiction, banks may, subject to supervisory approval, 
 
4  One of the basic assumptions underlying the BA- CVA is that systematic credit spread risk is driven by a single factor. Under 
this assumption, 𝜌𝜌 can be interpreted as the correlation between the credit spread of a counterparty and the single credi t 
spread systematic factor. 
5  DF is the supervisory discount factor averaged over time between today and the netting set's effective maturity date. The 
interest rate used for discounting is set at 5%, hence 0.05 in the formula. The product of EAD and effective maturity in the BA-
CVA formula is a proxy for the area under the discounted expected exposure (EE) profile of the netting set. The IMM definition 
of effective maturity already includes this discount factor, hence DF is set to 1 for IMM banks. Outside IMM, netting set effective 
maturity is defined as an average of actual trade maturities. This definition lacks discounting, so the supervisory discount factor 
is added to compensate for this. 
6  α is the multiplier used to convert Effective Expected Positive Exposure (EEPE) to EAD in both SA-CCR and IMM. Its role in the 
calculation, therefore, is to convert the EAD of the netting set (EADNS) back to EEPE.

[Page 116]
112 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
map the internal ra ting to an external rating and assign a risk weight corresponding to either IG or HY. 
Otherwise, the risk weights corresponding to NR is to be applied. 
Sector of counterparty Credit quality of counterparty 
IG HY and NR 
Sovereigns including central banks, multilateral development banks 0.5% 3.0% 
Local government, government-backed non-financials, education and public 
administration 
1.0% 4.0% 
Financials including government-backed financials 5.0% 12.0% 
Basic materials, energy, industrials, agriculture, manufacturing, mining and 
quarrying 
3.0% 7.0% 
Consumer goods and services, transportation and storage, administrative and 
support service activities 
3.0% 8.5% 
Technology, telecommunications 2.0% 5.5% 
Health care, utilities, professional and technical activities 1.5% 5.0% 
Other sector 5.0% 12.0% 
 
3. Full version of the BA-CVA (hedges are recognised) 
(a) Eligible hedges 
15. Only transactions used for the purpose of mitigating the counterparty credit spread component 
of CVA risk, and managed as such, can be eligible hedges.  
16. Only single-name CDS, single-name contingent CDS and index CDS can be eligible CVA hedges. 
17. El igible single-name credit instruments must: (i) reference the counterparty directly; (ii) reference 
an entity legally related to the counterparty; or (iii) reference an entity that belongs to the same sector and 
region as the counterparty. 
(b) Calculations 
18. Banks that intend to use the full version of BA -CVA must calculate Kreduced as well. Under the full 
version, capital requirement for CVA risk Kfull is calculated as follows: 
( )ββ=⋅ +− ⋅full reduced hedgedKK K 1  
where β=0.25 and is the supervisory parameter tha t is used to provide a floor that limits the extent to 
which hedging can reduce the capital that is required to cover CVA risk. 
19. The part of capital requirements that recognises eligible hedges (Khedged) is calculated using the 
following formula, where the summations are taken over all counterparties c that are within scope of the 
CVA charge: 
( )ρρ= ⋅ − − +− − +
 ∑ ∑∑  () ()hedged c c c c c
c cc
K SCVA SNH IH SCVA SNH HMA
2
221  
where: 
• Both the stand-alone CVA capital (SCVAC) and the correlation parameter (ρ) are defined in exactly 
the same way as for the reduced form calculation BA-CVA.

[Page 117]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 113 
 
 
• SNHC is a parameter that gives recognition to the reduction in CVA risk of the counterparty c 
arising from the bank’s use of single-name hedges of credit spread risk. See paragraph 21 for its 
calculation. 
• IH is a parameter that gives recognition to the reduction in CVA risk across all counterparties 
arising from the bank’s use of index hedges. See paragraph 22 for its calculation. 
• HMAC is a hedging misalignment parameter, which is designed to limit the extent to which 
indirect hedges can reduce capital requirements given that they will not fully offset movements 
in a counterparty’s credit spread. T hat is, with indirect hedges present Khedged cannot reach zero. 
See paragraph 23 for its calculation. 
20. Regarding the main three terms in the formula for Khedged in paragraph 19: 
• The first term ρ ⋅ −− ∑( )  cc
c
SCVA SNH IH
2
aggregates the systematic componen ts of CVA risk 
arising from the bank’s counterparties, the single-name hedges and the index hedges.  
• The second term ( ) ρ−− ∑() cc
c
SCVA SNH221  aggregates the idiosyncratic components of CVA 
risk arising from the bank’s counterparties and the single-name hedges.  
• The third term ∑ c
c
HMA  aggregates the components of indirect hedges that are not aligned with 
counterparties’ credit spreads.  
21. The quantity SNHc is calculated as follows (where the summation is across all single name hedges 
h that the bank has taken out to hedge the CVA risk of counterparty c): 
∈
= ⋅ ⋅⋅⋅∑    SN SN SN
c hc h h h h
hc
SNH r RW M B DF  
where: 
• rhc is the supervisory prescribed correlation between the credit spread of counterparty c and the 
credit spread of a single-name hedge h of counterparty c. It is set using the table under paragraph 
24. It is set at 100% if the hedge directly references the counterparty, and set at lower values if it 
does not. 
• SN
hM  is the remaining maturity of single-name hedge h. 
•  SN
hB is the notional of single -name hedge h. For single -name contingent CDS, the notional is 
determined by the current market value of the reference portfolio or instrument.  
• SN
hDF  is the supervisory discount factor calculated as 
−⋅
−
⋅
.
.
SN
hM
SN
h
e
M
0 05
1
0 05
 
• RWh is the supervisory risk weight of single-name hedge h that reflects the volatility of the credit 
spread of the reference name of the hedging instrument. These risk weights are based on a 
combination of sector a nd credit quality of the reference name of the hedging instrument as 
prescribed in paragraph 14.  
22. The quantity IH is calculated as follows (where the summation is across all index hedges i that 
the bank has taken out to hedge CVA risk): 
⋅⋅= ⋅∑
ind ind ind
ii i i
i
IH RW M B DF  
where

[Page 118]
114 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• ind
iM  is the remaining maturity of index hedge i. 
•  ind
iB is the notional of the index hedge i. 
• ind
iDF  is the supervisory discount factor calculated as 
−⋅
−
⋅
.
.
ind
iM
ind
i
e
M
0 05
1
0 05
 
• RWi is the supervisory risk weight of the index hedge i. RWi is taken from the table in paragraph 
14 based on the sector and credit quality of the index constituents and adjusted as follows:  
− For indices where all index constituents belong to the same sector and are of the same credit 
quality, the relevant value in the table in paragraph 14 is multiplied by 0.7 to account for 
diversification of idiosyncratic risk within the index. 
− For indices spanning multiple sectors or with a mixture of investment grade constituents and 
other constituents, the name -weighted average of the risk weights from the table in 
paragraph 14 should be calculated and then multiplied by 0.7. 
23. The quantity HMAC is calculated as follows: 
( ) ( )
∈
⋅ ⋅⋅= ⋅−∑
SN SN SN
c hc h h h h
hc
HMA r RW M B DF
221  
where the summation is across all single name hedges h that have been taken out to hedge the CVA risk 
of counterparty c, and where ,  ,,   SN SN SN
hc h h hr M B DF  and RWh have the same definitions as set out in 
paragraph 21. 
24. The supervisory prescribed correlations rhc between the credit spread of counterparty c and the 
credit spread of its single-name hedge h are set as follows: 
Single-name hedge h of counterparty c Value of rhc 
references counterparty c directly 100% 
has legal relation with counterparty c 80% 
shares sector and region with counterparty c 50% 
C. Standardised approach for CVA 
1. General provisions 
25. The standardised approach for CVA (SA-CVA) is an adaptation of the standardised approach for 
market risk (SA-TB) under the revised market risk standard. The primary differences of the SA -CVA from 
the SA-TB are: (i) the SA -CVA features a reduced granularity  of market risk factors; (ii) the SA -CVA does 
not include default risk and curvature risk; (iii) the SA -CVA uses a more conservative risk aggregation; (iv) 
the SA-CVA uses the conservativeness multiplier mCVA.  
26. The SA-CVA must be calculated and reported to supervisors at the same monthly frequency as 
the SA-TB. In addition, banks using the SA -CVA must calculate, and have the ability to produce to their 
supervisors, SA-CVA calculations on demand.  
27. The SA-CVA uses as inputs the sensitivities of regulatory CVA to counterparty credit spreads and 
market risk factors driving covered transactions’ values. Sensitivities must be computed by banks in 
accordance with the sensitivity validation standards described for the SA -TB in the revised market risk 
standard.

[Page 119]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 115 
 
 
28. The minimum criteria for the SA-CVA eligibility include the following: 
• A bank must be able to model exposure and calculate, on at least a monthly basis, CVA and CVA 
sensitivities to the market risk factors specified in Section C.6 of this framework.  
• A bank must have a CVA desk (or a similar dedicated function) responsible for risk management 
and hedging of CVA. 
2. Regulatory CVA calculations 
29. Regulatory CVA is the base for the calculation of the CVA risk capital requirement under the SA -
CVA. Calculations of regulatory CVA must be performed for each counterparty with which a bank has at 
least one covered position.  
30. Regulatory CVA at a counterparty level must be calculated according to the following principles, 
with the bank’s adherence to the principles to be demonstrated by the bank to its relevant supervisor:  
• Regulatory CVA must be calculated as the expectation of future losses resulting f rom default of 
the counterparty under the assumption that the bank itself is default risk-free.  
• The calculation must be based on at least the following inputs: (i) term structure of market -
implied probability of default (PD); (ii) market -consensus expected loss given default (ELGD); (3) 
simulated paths of discounted future exposure.  
• The term structure of market-implied PD must be estimated from credit spreads observed in the 
markets. For counterparties whose credit is not actively traded (ie illiquid coun terparties), the 
market-implied PD must be estimated from proxy credit spreads estimated for these 
counterparties according to the following requirements: 
− A bank must estimate the credit spread curves of illiquid counterparties from credit spreads 
observed in the markets of the counterparty’s liquid peers via an algorithm that discriminates 
on at least three variables: a measure of credit quality (eg rating), industry, and region. 
− In certain cases, mapping an illiquid counterparty to a single liquid referen ce name can be 
allowed. A typical example would be mapping a municipality to its home country (ie setting 
the municipality credit spread equal to the sovereign credit spread plus a premium). A bank 
must justify to its supervisor every case of mapping to single names. 
− When no credit spreads of any of the counterparty’s peers is available due to the 
counterparty’s specific type (eg project finance, funds), a bank is allowed to use a more 
fundamental analysis of credit risk to proxy the spread of an illiquid c ounterparty. However, 
where historical PDs are used as part of this assessment, the resulting spread cannot be 
based on historical PD only – it must relate to credit markets. 
• The market-consensus ELGD value used for regulatory CVA calculation must be the same as the 
one used to calculate the risk- neutral PD from credit spreads unless the bank can demonstrate 
that the seniority of the derivative exposure differs from the seniority of senior unsecured bonds. 
Collateral provided by the counterparty does not change the seniority of the derivative exposure. 
• The paths of discounted future exposure are produced via pricing of all derivative transactions 
with the counterparty on simulated paths of relevant market risk factors and discounting the 
prices to today using risk-free interest rates along the path. 
• All market risk factors material for the transactions with a counterparty must be simulated as 
stochastic processes for an appropriate number of paths defined on an appropriate set of future 
time points extending to the maturity of the longest transaction.

[Page 120]
116 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• For transactions with a significant level of dependence between exposure and the counterparty’s 
credit quality, this dependence should be taken into account.  
• For margined counterparties, collateral is permitted to be recognised as a risk mitigant under the 
following conditions: 
− Collateral management requirements outlined in paragraph 51(i)–(ii) of Annex 4 of the Basel 
II framework are satisfied. 
− All documentation used in collateralised transactions must be binding on all parties and 
legally enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions. Banks must have conducted sufficient legal 
review to verify this and have a well- founded legal basis to reach this conclusion, and 
undertake such further review as necessary to ensure continuing enforceability. 
• For margined counterparties, the exposure simulation must capture the effects of margining 
collateral that is recognised as a risk mitigant along each exposure path. All the relevant 
contractual features such as the nature of the  margin agreement (unilateral vs bilateral), the 
frequency of margin calls, the type of collateral, thresholds, independent amounts, initial margins 
and minimum transfer amounts must be appropriately captured by the exposure model. To 
determine collateral available to a bank at a given exposure measurement time point, the 
exposure model must assume that the counterparty will not post or return any collateral within a 
certain time period immediately prior to that time point. The assumed value of this time pe riod, 
known as the margin period of risk (MPoR), cannot be less than a supervisory floor. The 
supervisory floor is equal to 9 + N business days, where N is the re-margining period specified in 
the margin agreement (in particular, for margin agreements with daily or intra-daily exchange of 
margin, the minimum MPoR is 10 business days). 
31. The paths of discounted exposure are obtained via exposure models used by a bank for 
calculating front office/accounting CVA, adjusted (if needed) to meet the requirements  imposed for 
regulatory CVA calculation. Model calibration process (with the exception of the MPoR), market and 
transaction data used for regulatory CVA calculation must be the same as the ones used for accounting 
CVA calculation. 
32. The generation of mar ket risk factor paths underlying the exposure models must satisfy the 
following requirements, with the bank’s adherence to these requirements to be demonstrated by the bank 
to its relevant supervisor:  
• Drifts of risk factors must be consistent with a risk -neutral probability measure. Historical 
calibration of drifts is not allowed. 
• The volatilities and correlations of market risk factors must be calibrated to market data whenever 
sufficient data exists in a given market. Otherwise, historical calibration is permissible. 
• The distribution of modelled risk factors must account for the possible non -normality of the 
distribution of exposures, including the existence of leptokurtosis (“fat tails”), where appropriate. 
33. Netting recognition is the same as in the accounting CVA calculations. In particular, netting 
uncertainty can be modelled.  
34. The requirements for illiquid positions, which are accounted for at fair value in the revised market 
risk framework extend to accounting-based CVA calculations. In particular, all components of accounting-
based exposure models must be independently validated.  
35. The following requirements apply, with the bank’s adherence to these requirements to be 
demonstrated by the bank to its relevant supervisor: 
• Exposure models used for calculating regulatory CVA must be part of a CVA risk management 
framework that includes the identification, measurement, management, approval and internal

[Page 121]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 117 
 
 
reporting of CVA market risk. A bank must have a cred ible track record in using these exposure 
models for calculating CVA and CVA sensitivities to market risk factors. 
• Senior management should be actively involved in the risk control process and must regard CVA 
risk control as an essential aspect of the business to which significant resources need to be 
devoted.  
• Banks must have a process in place for ensuring compliance with a documented set of internal 
policies, controls and procedures concerning the operation of the exposure system used for 
accounting CVA calculations.  
• Banks must have an independent control unit that is responsible for the effective initial and 
ongoing validation of the exposure models. This unit must be independent from business credit 
and trading units (including the CVA desk), must be adequately staffed and must report directly 
to senior management of the firm.  
• Banks must document the process for initial and ongoing validation of their exposure models to 
a level of detail that would enable a third party to understand how the model operates, its 
limitations, and its key assumptions; and recreate the analysis. This documentation must set out 
the minimum frequency with which ongoing validation will be conducted as well as other 
circumstances (such as a sudden change in market behaviour). In  addition, the documentation 
must describe how the validation is conducted with respect to data flows and portfolios, what 
analyses are used and how representative counterparty portfolios are constructed.  
• The pricing models used to calculate exposure for a given path of market risk factors must be 
tested against appropriate independent benchmarks for a wide range of market states as part of 
the initial and ongoing model validation process. Pricing models for options must account for 
the non-linearity of option value with respect to market risk factors.  
• An independent review of the overall CVA risk management process should be carried out 
regularly in the bank’s own internal auditing process. This review should include both the 
activities of the CVA desk and of the independent risk control unit.  
• Banks must define criteria on which to assess the exposure models and their inputs and have a 
written policy in place to describe the process by which unacceptable performance will be 
determined and remedied. 
• An exp osure model must capture transaction -specific information in order to aggregate 
exposures at the level of the netting set. Banks must verify that transactions are assigned to the 
appropriate netting set within the model.  
• The exposure models must reflect transaction terms and specifications in a timely, complete, and 
conservative fashion. The terms and specifications must reside in a secure database that is subject 
to formal and periodic audit. The transmission of transaction terms and specifications data to the 
exposure model must also be subject to internal audit, and formal reconciliation processes must 
be in place between the internal model and source data systems to verify on an ongoing basis 
that transaction terms and specifications are being reflected  in the exposure system correctly or 
at least conservatively.  
• The current and historical market data must be acquired independently of the lines of business 
and be compliant with accounting. They must be fed into the exposure model in a timely and 
complete fashion, and maintained in a secure database subject to formal and periodic audit. 
Banks must also have a well -developed data integrity process to handle the data of erroneous 
and/or anomalous observations. To the extent that the exposure model relies on  proxy market 
data, internal policies must identify suitable proxies and the bank must demonstrate empirically 
on an ongoing basis that the proxy provides a conservative representation of the underlying risk 
under adverse market conditions.

[Page 122]
118 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
3. Eligible hedges 
36. Only whole transactions 7 that are used for the purpose of mitigating CVA risk, and managed as 
such, can be eligible hedges. 
37. Hedges of both the counterparty credit spread and exposure components of CVA risk can be 
eligible. 
38. Instruments that cannot be included in the Internal Model Approach for market risk under the 
revised market risk standard (eg tranched credit derivatives) cannot be eligible CVA hedges.  
4. Multiplier 
39. To compensate for a higher level of model risk in calculation of CVA  sensitivities in comparison 
to sensitivities of market value of trading book instruments, the equivalent measure used in the revised 
market risk standard is scaled up via a multiplier mCVA.  
40. Multiplier mCVA has a default value of 1.25. However, the de fault value of the multiplier can be 
increased by the bank’s supervisory authority if it determines that the bank’s CVA model risk warrants it 
(eg the dependence between the bank’s exposure to a counterparty and the counterparty’s credit quality 
is not taken into account in its CVA calculations).  
5. Calculations 
41. The SA-CVA capital requirement is calculated as the sum of the capital requirements for delta 
and vega risks calculated for the entire CVA portfolio (including eligible hedges). 
42. The capital requirement for delta risk is calculated as the simple sum of delta capital requirements 
calculated independently for the following six risk types: (i) interest rate (IR); (ii) foreign exchange (FX); (iii) 
counterparty credit spreads; (iv) reference credit spreads (ie credit spreads that drive exposure); (v) equity; 
(vi) commodity. 
43.  If an instrument is deemed as an eligible hedge for credit spread delta risk, it must be assigned 
in its entirety (see footnote 7) either to the counterparty credit spread or to the reference credit spread 
risk type. Instruments cannot be split between the two risk types. 
44. The capital requirement for vega risk is calculated as the simple sum of vega capital requirements 
calculated independently for the following five risk  types: (i) interest rates (IR); (ii) foreign exchange (FX); 
(iii) reference credit spreads; (iv) equity; (v) commodity. There is no vega capital requirement for 
counterparty credit spread risk. 
45. Delta and vega capital requirements are calculated via th e same procedure described below in 
paragraphs 46 to 52.  
46. For a given risk type, calculate the sensitivity of the aggregate CVA, CVA
ks , and the sensitivity of 
the market value of all eligible hedging instruments in the CVA portfolio, Hdg
ks , to each risk factor k in the 
risk type. The sensitivities are defined as the ratio of the change of the quantity in question (aggregate 
CVA or market value of all CVA hedges) caused by a small change of the risk factor curren t value to the 
size of the change. More specific definitions are provided for each asset class in Section C.6. These 
definitions include specific values of risk factor shifts. However, a bank may use smaller values of risk factor 
shifts if doing so is consistent with internal risk management calculations.  
 
7  Transactions cannot be split into several effective transactions.

[Page 123]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 119 
 
 
47. When CVA sensitivities for vega risk are calculated, the volatility shift must apply to both types of 
volatilities that appear in exposure models: (i) volatilities used for generating risk factor paths; and (ii) 
volatilities used for pricing options. CVA sensitivities for vega risk are always material and must be 
calculated regardless of whether or not the portfolio includes options.  
48. If a hedging instrument is an index, its sensitivities to all risk factors upon which the value of the 
index depends must be calculated. The index sensitivity to risk factor k must be calculated via applying the 
shift of risk factor k to all index constituents that depend on this risk factor and recalculating the index. 
For example, to calculate delta sensitivity of S&P500 to large financial companies, banks must apply the 
relevant shift to equity prices of all large financial companies that are constituents of S&P500 and re -
compute the index.  
49. Obtain the weighted s ensitivities CVA
kWS  and Hdg
kWS  for each risk factor k by multiplying the net 
sensitivities CVA
ks  and Hdg
ks , respectively, by the corresponding risk weight RWk (the risk weights applicable 
to each risk type are specified in Section C.6). 
= ⋅= ⋅CVA CVA Hdg Hdg
k kk k kkWS RW s WS RW s   
50. The net weighted sensitivity of the CVA portfolio sk to risk factor k is obtained via:  
= + CVA Hdg
kk kWS WS WS   
51. Weighted sensitivities must be aggregated into a capital charge Kb within each bucket b (the 
buckets and correlation parameters ρkl  applicable to each risk type are specified in Section C.6).  
ρ
∈ ∈∈≠ ∈
 = + ⋅ ⋅ +⋅ 
∑ ∑∑ ∑
;
() Hdg
b k kl k l k
kb kb lb lk k b
K WS WS WS R WS22   
where R is the hedging disallowance parameter, set at 0.01, that prevents the possibility of perfect hedging 
of CVA risk.  
52. Bucket-level capital charges must then be aggregated across buckets within each risk type (the 
correlation parameters γbc  applicable to each risk type are specified in Section C.6. 
γ
≠
= ⋅ + ⋅⋅ ∑ ∑∑CVA b bc b c
b b cb
Km K KK 2   
Note that this equation differs from the corresponding equation in the revised market risk standard by the 
absence of a residual value and of quantities Sb and the presence of multiplier mCVA.  
6. Buckets, risk factors, sensitivities, risk weights and correlations8 
(a) Interest rates 
53. For interest rate delta and vega risks, buckets are individual currencies.  
54. For interest rate delta and vega risks, cross-bucket correlation is γ = .bc 05  for all currency pairs. 
55. Interest rate delta risk factors for a bank’s domestic currency and for the following currencies: 
USD, EUR, GBP, AUD, CAD, SEK or JPY:  
 
8  The risk weights and correlations match the ones in the SA-TB, except for interest rate cross-tenor correlations that are obtained 
via the formula underlying interest rate correlations in the SA -CCR (see pages 14 -17 of “Foundations of the standardised 
approach for measuring counterparty credit risk exposures”, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs_wp26.pdf). The numbers in the tables are 
subject to change if calibration of the SA-TB changes.

[Page 124]
120 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• Interest rate delta risk factors are the absolute changes of the inflation rate and of the risk -free 
yields for the following five tenors: 1 year, 2 years, 5 years, 10 years and 30 years.  
• Sensitivities to the abovementioned yields are measured by changing the risk-free yield in a given 
currency by 1 basis  point (0.0001 in absolute terms) and dividing the resulting change in the 
aggregate CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.0001. Sensitivity to the inflation rate is obtained 
by changing the inflation rate by 1 basis point and dividing the resulting change in the aggregate 
CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.0001. 
• Risk weights RWk are given by: 
Risk factor 1 year 2 years 5 years 10 years 30 years Inflation 
Risk weight 1.59% 1.33% 1.06% 1.06% 1.06% 1.59% 
 
• Correlations ρkl  between pairs of risk factors are: 
 1 year 2 years 5 years 10 years 30 years Inflation 
1 year 100% 91% 72% 55% 31% 40% 
2 years  100% 87% 72% 45% 40% 
5 years   100% 91% 68% 40% 
10 years    100% 83% 40% 
30 years     100% 40% 
Inflation      100% 
 
56. Interest rate delta risk factors for any currency not specified in paragraph 55:  
• Interest rate risk factors are the absolute change of the inflation rate and the parallel shift of the 
entire risk-free yield curve for a given currency.  
• Sensitivity to the yield curve is measured by shifting all risk -free yield curves in a given currency 
by 1 basis point (0.0001 in absolute terms) and dividing the resulting change in the aggregate 
CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.0001. Sensitivity to the inflation rate is obtained by 
changing the inflation rate by 1 basis point and dividing the resulting change in the aggregate 
CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.0001.  
• Risk weights for both risk-free yield curve and inflation rate are set at = .%kRW 2 25 .  
• Correlations between risk-free yield curve and inflation rate are set at ρ = %kl 40 . 
57. Interest rate vega risk factors for any currency:  
• Interest rate vega risk factors are a simultaneous relative change of all volatilities for the inflation 
rate and a simultaneous relative change of all interest rate volatilities for a given currency.  
• Sensitivity to the interest rate (or inflation rate) volatilities is measured by simultaneously shifting 
all interest rate- (or inflation rate-) volatilities by 1% relative to their current values and dividing 
the resulting change in the aggregate CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.01.  
• Risk weights for both interest rate and inflation volatilities are set to σ= ⋅kRW RW 6 , where 
σRW  is set at 55%. 
• Correlations between interest rate volatilities and inflation volatilities are set at ρ = %kl 40 .

[Page 125]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 121 
 
 
(b) Foreign exchange (FX) 
58. For FX delta and vega risks, buckets are individual currencies except f or a bank’s domestic 
currency.  
59. For FX delta and vega risks, cross-bucket correlation is γ = .bc 06  for all currency pairs. 
60. FX delta risk factors for any foreign currency:  
• The single FX delta risk factor is the relative change of t he FX spot rate between a given foreign 
currency and a bank’s domestic currency (ie only foreign -domestic exchange rates are risk 
factors).  
• Sensitivities to the FX spot rate are measured by shifting a given foreign-domestic exchange rate 
by 1% relative to its current value and dividing the resulting change in the aggregate CVA (or the 
value of CVA hedges) by 0.01. All foreign- foreign rates involving the currency of the shifted 
foreign-domestic rate are shifted accordingly via the representation of the fore ign-foreign rate 
as the ratio of two foreign- domestic rates (for example, if EUR is the domestic currency and 
USDEUR is shifted, the shifted value of USDGBP is obtained as the ratio of the shifted value of 
USDEUR to the unshifted value of GBPEUR). 
• Risk weights for all foreign-domestic exchange rates are set at = %kRW 21 .  
61. FX vega risk factors for any foreign currency:  
• The single FX vega risk factor is a simultaneous relative change of all volatilities for a given 
foreign-domestic exchange rate.  
• Sensitivities to the FX volatilities are measured by simultaneously shifting all volatilities for a given 
foreign-domestic exchange rate by 1% relative to their current values and dividing the resulting 
change in the aggregate CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.01. Volatilities of all foreign -
foreign exchange rates involving the shifted currency are shifted according to the representation 
of the foreign-foreign exchange rate volatility via two foreign-domestic exchange rate volatilities 
and the relevant implied correlation (the latter is assumed to be fixed).  
• Risk weights for FX volatilities are set to σ= ⋅kRW RW 4 , where σRW  is set at 55%.  
(c) Counterparty credit spread 
62. For counterparty credit spread, vega risk is not calculated. Buckets for delta risk are:  
Bucket number Sector 
1 
 
a) Sovereigns including central banks, multilateral development banks 
b) Local government, government-backed non-financials, education and public administration 
2 Financials including government-backed financials 
3 Basic materials, energy, industrials, agriculture, manufacturing, mining and quarrying 
4 Consumer goods and services, transportation and storage, administrative and support service 
activities 
5 Technology, telecommunications 
6 Health care, utilities, professional and technical activities 
7 Other sector

[Page 126]
122 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
63. For counterparty credit spread delta risk, cross-bucket correlations γbc  are given by 
Bucket 1 2 3 4 5 6 
1 100% 10% 20% 25% 20% 15% 
2  100% 5% 15% 20% 5% 
3   100% 20% 25% 5% 
4    100% 25% 5% 
5     100% 5% 
6      100% 
 
• For cross-bucket correlations γbc  applying across bucket 7 and another bucket, γbc = 0%. 
64. Counterparty credit spread delta risk factors for a given bucket:  
• Counterparty credit spread delta risk factors are absolute shifts of credit spreads of individual 
entities (counterparties and reference names for counterparty credit spread h edges) at the 
following tenors: 0.5 years, 1 year, 3 years, 5 years and 10 years. 
• For a given entity and tenor point, the sensitivities are measured by shifting the relevant credit 
spread by 1 basis point (0.0001 in absolute terms) and dividing the resulting change in the 
aggregate CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.0001.  
• Risk weights RWk are the same for all tenors and depend on the entity’s bucket according to: 
Bucket 1 a) 1 b) 2 3 4 5 6 7 
IG names 0.5% 1.0% 5.0% 3.0% 3.0% 2.0% 1.5% 5.0% 
HY and NR names 3.0% 4.0% 12.0% 7.0% 8.5% 5.5% 5.0% 12.0% 
 
where IG, HY and NR are the shorthand notations for “investment grade”, “high yield” and “not 
rated”. This credit quality designation is the same as in the BA-CVA (see paragraph 14). 
• Correlations ρkl  between different tenors for the same entity are set to 90%. 
For unrelated entities of the same credit quality (IG and IG or HY/NR and HY/NR):  
• Correlations ρkl  between the same tenors are set to 50%. 
• Correlations ρkl  between different tenors are set to 45%.  
For unrelated entities of different credit quality (IG and HY/NR): 
• Correlations ρkl  between the same tenors are set to 40%. 
• Correlations ρkl  between different tenors are set to 36%.  
For entities that are legally related: 
• Correlations ρkl  between the same tenors are set to 90%. 
• Correlations ρkl  between different tenors are set to 81%. 
(d) Reference credit spread 
65. For reference credit spreads, both delta and vega risks are calculated. Buckets for delta and vega 
risks are as follows (with the IG, HY and NR credit quality designations the same as in paragraph 14 of the 
BA-CVA):

[Page 127]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 123 
 
 
Bucket number Credit quality Sector 
1 
Investment grade 
(IG) 
Sovereigns including central banks, multilateral development banks 
2 Local government, government-backed non-financials, education and public 
administration 
3 Financials including government-backed financials 
4 Basic materials, energy, industrials, agriculture, manufacturing, mining and 
quarrying 
5 Consumer goods and services, transportation and storage, administrative and 
support service activities 
6 Technology, telecommunications 
7 Health care, utilities, professional and technical activities 
8 
High yield (HY) & 
non-rated (NR) 
Sovereigns including central banks, multilateral development banks 
9 Local government, government-backed non-financials, education and public 
administration 
10 Financials including government-backed financials 
11 Basic materials, energy, industrials, agriculture, manufacturing, mining and 
quarrying 
12 Consumer goods and services, transportation and storage, administrative and 
support service activities 
13 Technology, telecommunications 
14 Health care, utilities, professional and technical activities 
15 (Not applicable) Other sector 
 
66. For reference credit spread delta and vega risks, cross -bucket correlations γbc  within the same 
credit quality category (ie either IG or HY&NR) are given by 
Bucket 1/8 2/9 3/10 4/11 5/12 6/13 7/14 
1/8 100% 75% 10% 20% 25% 20% 15% 
2/9  100% 5% 15% 20% 15% 10% 
3/10   100% 5% 15% 20% 5% 
4/11    100% 20% 25% 5% 
5/12     100% 25% 5% 
6/13      100% 5% 
7/14       100% 
 
• For cross-bucket correlations γbc  applying across IG and HY&NR categories, these correlations 
are divided by 2. 
• For cross-bucket correlations γbc  applying across bucket 15 and another bucket, γbc  is set to 0%. 
67. Reference credit spread delta risk factors for a given bucket:  
• The single reference credit spread delta risk factor is a simultaneous absolute shift of credit 
spreads of all tenors for all reference names in the bucket.  
• Sensitivity to reference credit spreads is measured by shifting the credit spreads of all reference 
names in the bucket by 1 basis point (0.0001 in absolute terms) and dividing the resulting change 
in the aggregate CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.0001.

[Page 128]
124 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• Risk weights kRW  depend on the reference name’s bucket according to: 
IG bucket 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
Risk weight 0.5% 1.0% 5.0% 3.0% 3.0% 2.0% 1.5% 
 
HY/NR bucket 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 
Risk weight 3.0% 4.0% 12.0% 7.0% 8.5% 5.5% 5.0% 12.0% 
 
68. Reference credit spread vega risk factors for a given bucket:  
• The single reference credit spread vega risk factor is a simultaneous relative shift of the volatilities 
of credit spreads of all tenors for all reference names in the bucket.  
• Sensitivity to volatility of reference credit spread is measured by shifting the volatilities of credit 
spreads of all reference names in the bucket by 1% relative to their current values and dividing 
the resulting change in the aggregate CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.01.  
• Risk weights for reference credit spread volatilities are set to σ= ⋅kRW RW 12 , where σRW  is 
set at 55%. 
(e) Equity 
69. For equity delta and vega risks, buckets are defined as:  
Bucket 
number 
Size Region Sector 
1 
Large 
Emerging 
market 
economies  
Consumer goods and services, transportation and storage, administrative and 
support service activities, healthcare, utilities 
2 Telecommunications, industrials 
3 Basic materials, energy, agriculture, manufacturing, mining and quarrying 
4 Financials including government-backed financials, real estate activities, 
technology 
5 
Advanced 
economies 
Consumer goods and services, transportation and storage, administrative and 
support service activities, healthcare, utilities 
6 Telecommunications, industrials 
7 Basic materials, energy, agriculture, manufacturing, mining and quarrying 
8 Financials including government-backed financials, real estate activities, 
technology 
9 
Small 
Emerging 
market 
economies 
All sectors described under bucket numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4 
10 Advanced 
economies 
All sectors described under bucket numbers 5, 6, 7, and 8 
11 (Not applicable) Other sector 
 
The terminology used in the equity bucket definition should be understood as follows: 
• Market capitalisation (“market cap”) is defined as the sum of the market capitalisations of the 
same legal entity or group of legal entities across all stock markets globally.  
• “Large market cap” is defined as a market capitalisation equal to or greater th an USD 2 billion 
and “small market cap” is defined as a market capitalisation of less than USD 2 billion.

[Page 129]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 125 
 
 
• The advanced economies are Canada, the United States, Mexico, the euro area, the non-euro area 
western European countries (the United Kingdom, Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Switzerland), 
Japan, Oceania (Australia and New Zealand), Singapore and Hong Kong SAR. 
• To assign a risk exposure to a sector, banks must rely on a classification that is commonly used 
in the market for grouping issuers by industry sector. The bank must assign each issuer to one of 
the sector buckets in the table above and it must assign all issuers from the same industry to the 
same sector. Risk positions from any issuer that a bank cannot assign to a sector in this fashion 
must be assi gned to the “other sector” (ie bucket 11). For multinational multi -sector equity 
issuers, the allocation to a particular bucket must be done according to the most material region 
and sector in which the issuer operates. 
70. For equity delta and vega risks, cross-bucket correlation γbc  = 15% for all cross-bucket pairs that 
fall within bucket numbers 1 to 10. γbc = 0% for all cross-bucket pairs that include bucket 11. 
71. Equity delta risk factors for a given bucket:  
• The single equity delta risk factor is a simultaneous relative shift of equity spot prices for all 
reference names in the bucket.  
• The sensitivities to equity delta risk factors are measured by shifting the equity spot prices for all 
reference names in  the bucket by 1% relative to their current values and dividing the resulting 
change in the aggregate CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.01.  
• Risk weights RWk depend on the reference name’s bucket according to the following table:  
Bucket number Risk weight 
1 55% 
2 60% 
3 45% 
4 55%  
5 30% 
6 35% 
7 40% 
8 50% 
9 70% 
10 50% 
11 70% 
 
72. Equity vega risk factors for a given bucket:  
• The single equity vega risk factor is a simultaneous relative shift of the volatilities for all reference 
names in the bucket. 
• The sensitivities to equity vega risk factors are measured by shifting the volatilities for all 
reference names in the bucket by 1% relative to their current values and dividing the resulting 
change in the aggregate CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.01. 
• Risk weights for equity volatilities are set to σ= ⋅kRW RW 2  for large capitalisation buckets and 
to σ= ⋅kRW RW 6  for small capitalisation buckets, where σRW  is set at 55%.

[Page 130]
126 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(f) Commodity 
73. For commodity delta and vega risks, buckets are defined as:  
Bucket  Commodity group Examples 
1 Energy – Solid combustibles coal, charcoal, wood pellets, nuclear fuel (such as uranium) 
2 Energy – Liquid combustibles crude oil (such as Light-sweet, heavy, WTI and Brent); biofuels (such 
as bioethanol and biodiesel); petrochemicals (such as propane, 
ethane, gasoline, methanol and butane); refined fuels (such as jet 
fuel, kerosene, gasoil, fuel oil, naptha, heating oil and diesel) 
3 Energy – Electricity and carbon 
trading 
electricity (such as spot, day-ahead, peak and off-peak); carbon 
emissions trading (such as certified emissions reductions, in-
delivery month EUA, RGGI CO2 allowance and renewable energy 
certificates) 
4 Freight dry-bulk route (such as capesize, panamex, handysize and 
supramax); liquid-bulk/gas shipping route (such as suezmax, 
aframax and very large crude carriers) 
5 Metals – non-precious base metal (such as aluminium, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc); 
steel raw materials (such as steel billet, steel wire, steel coil, steel 
scrap and steel rebar, iron ore, tungsten, vanadium, titanium and 
tantalum); minor metals (such as cobalt, manganese, molybdenum) 
6 Gaseous combustibles natural gas; liquefied natural gas 
7 Precious metals (including gold) gold; silver; platinum; palladium 
8 Grains & oilseed corn; wheat; soybean (such as soybean seed, soybean oil and 
soybean meal); oats; palm oil; canola; barley; rapeseed (such as 
rapeseed seed, rapeseed oil, and rapeseed meal); red bean, 
sorghum; coconut oil; olive oil; peanut oil; sunflower oil; rice 
9 Livestock & dairy cattle (such live and feeder); hog; poultry; lamb; fish; shrimp; dairy 
(such as milk, whey, eggs, butter and cheese) 
10 Softs and other agriculturals cocoa; coffee (such as arabica and robusta); tea; citrus and orange 
juice; potatoes; sugar; cotton; wool; lumber and pulp; rubber 
11 Other commodity industrial minerals (such as potash, fertiliser and phosphate rocks), 
rare earths; terephthalic acid; flat glass 
 
74. For commodity delta and vega risks, cross-bucket correlation bcγ = 20% for all cross-bucket pairs 
that fall within bucket numbers 1 to 10. bcγ = 0% for all cross-bucket pairs that include bucket 11. 
75. Commodity delta risk factors for a given bucket:  
• The single commodity delta risk factor is a simultaneous relative shift of commodity spot prices 
for all commodities in the bucket.  
• The sensitivities to commodity delta risk factors are measured by shifting the spot prices of all 
commodities in the bucket by 1% relative to their current values and dividing the resulting change 
in the aggregate CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.01. 
• Risk weights RWk depend on the reference name’s bucket according to the following table:  
Bucket 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 
RW 30% 35% 60% 80% 40% 45% 20% 35% 25% 35% 50%

[Page 131]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 127 
 
 
76. Commodity vega risk factors for a given bucket:  
• The single commodity vega risk factor is a simultaneous relative shift of the volatilities for all 
commodities in the bucket.  
• The sensitivities to commodity vega risk factors are measured by shifting the volatilities for all 
commodities in the bucket by 1% relative to their current values and dividing the resulting change 
in the aggregate CVA (or the value of CVA hedges) by 0.01.  
• Risk weights for commodity volatilities are set to σ= ⋅kRW RW 12 , where σRW  is set at 55%.

[Page 132]
128 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
Minimum capital requirements for operational risk 
1.  Introduction 
1. Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems or from external events. This definition includes legal risk, 1 but excludes 
strategic and reputational risk. 
2.  The standardised approach for measuring minimum operational risk capital requirements 
replaces all existing approaches in the Basel II framework. 2 That is, this standard replaces paragraphs 644 
to 683 of the Basel II framework. 
3. Consistent with Part I (Scope of Application) of the Basel II Framework, the standardised approach 
applies to internationally active banks on a consolidated basis. Supervisors retain the discretion to apply 
the standardised approach framework to non-internationally active banks.  
2.  The standardised approach  
4. The standardised approach methodology is based on the following components: (i) the Business 
Indicator (BI) which  is a financial -statement-based proxy for operational risk; (ii) the Business Indicator 
Component (BIC), which is calculated by multiplying the BI by a set of regulatory determined marginal 
coefficients (αi); and (iii) the Internal Loss Multiplier (ILM), which is a scaling factor that is based on a bank’s 
average historical losses and the BIC.  
The Business Indicator  
5. The Business Indicator (BI) comprises three components: the interest, leases and dividend 
component (ILDC); the services component (SC), and the financial component (FC).  
6. T he BI is defined as: 
BI ILDC SC FC= ++  
In the formula below, a bar above a term indicates that it is calculated as the average over three years: t, 
t-1 and t-2, and:3  
( )      ; 2.25%             ILDC Min Abs Interest Income Interest Expense Interest Earning Assets Dividend Income= − ⋅+  
            ;            ;    SC Max Other OperatingIncome Other OperatingE xpense Max FeeIncome FeeExpense  = +   
( ) ( )     &       &   FC Abs Net P LTradingBook Abs Net P LBankingBook= +  
 
1  Legal risk includes, but is not limited to, exposure to fines, penalties, or punitive damages resulting from supervisory actions, 
as well as private settlements. 
2  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Basel II: International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: A 
Revised Framework – Comprehensive Version, June 2006, www.bis.org/pub/bcbs128.htm. 
3  The absolute value of net items (eg, interest income – interest expense) should be calculated first year by year. Only after this 
year by year calculation should the average of the three years be calculated.

[Page 133]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 129 
 
 
7. The definitions for each of the components of the BI are provided in the annex of this section.  
The Business Indicator Component 
8. To calculate the BIC, the BI is multiplied by the marginal coefficients (αi). The marginal coefficients 
increase with the size of the BI as shown in Table 1. For banks in the first bucket (ie with a BI less than or 
equal to €1bn) the BIC is equal to BI x 12%. The marginal increase in the BIC resulting from a one unit 
increase in the BI is 12% in bucket 1, 15% in bucket 2 and 18% in bucket 3. For example, given a BI = 
€35bn, the BIC = (1 x 12%) + (30-1) x 15% + (35-30) x 18% = €5.37bn. 
BI ranges and marginal coefficients Table 1 
Bucket BI range (in €bn) BI marginal coefficients (αi) 
1 ≤1  12% 
2 1 < BI ≤30 15% 
3 > 30 18% 
The Internal Loss Multiplier  
9. A bank’s internal operational risk loss experience affects the calculation of operational risk capital 
through the Internal Loss Multiplier (ILM). The ILM is defined as: 
( )
0.8
exp 1 1 LCILM Ln BIC
 = −+  
 
where the Loss Component (LC) is equal to 15 times average annual operational risk losses incurred over 
the previous 10 years. The ILM is  equal to one where the loss and business indicator components are 
equal. Where the LC is greater than the BIC, the ILM is greater than one. That is, a bank with losses that 
are high relative to its BIC is required to hold higher capital due to the incorporation of internal losses into 
the calculation methodology. Conversely, where the LC is lower than the BIC, the ILM is less than one. That 
is, a bank with losses that are low relative to its BIC is required to hold lower capital due to the 
incorporation of internal losses into the calculation methodology. 
10. The calculation of average losses in the Loss Component must be based on 10 years of high -
quality annual loss data. The qualitative requirements for loss data collection are outlined in paragraphs 
19 to 31. As part of the transition to the standardised approach, banks that do not have 10 years of high-
quality loss data may use a minimum of five years of data to calculate the Loss Component. 4 Banks that 
do not have five years of high-quality loss data must calculate the capital requirement based solely on the 
BI Component. Supervisors may however require a bank to calculate capital requirements using fewer than 
five years of losses if the ILM is greater than 1 and supervisors believe the losses are representative of the 
bank’s operational risk exposure.  
The standardised approach operational risk capital requirement 
11. The operational risk capital requirement is determined by the product of the BIC and the ILM. For 
banks in bucket 1 (ie with BI ≤ €1 billion), internal loss data does not affect the capital calculation. That is, 
the ILM is equal to 1, so that operational risk capital is equal to the BIC (=12% ∙ BI).  
 
4  This treatment is not expected to apply to banks that currently use the advanced measurement approaches for determining 
operational risk capital requirements.

[Page 134]
130 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
12.  At national discretion, supervisors may allow the inclusion of internal loss data into the framework 
for banks in bucket 1, subject to meeting the loss data collection requirements specified in paragraphs 19 
to 31. In addition, at national discretion, supervisors may set the value of ILM equal to 1 for all banks  in 
their jurisdiction. In case this discretion is exercised, banks would still be subject to the full set of disclosure 
requirements summarised in paragraph 32. 
13. Minimum operational risk capital (ORC) is calculated by multiplying the BIC and the ILM:5  
  ORC BIC ILM= ⋅  
3. Application of the standardised approach within a group 
14. At the consolidated level, the standardised approach calculations use fully consolidated BI figures, 
which net all the intragroup income and expenses. The calculations at a sub -consolidated level  use BI 
figures for the banks consolidated at that particular sub -level. The calculations at the subsidiary level use 
the BI figures from the subsidiary. 
15. Similar to bank holding companies, when BI figures for sub- consolidated or subsidiary banks 
reach bucket 2, these banks are required to use loss experience in the standardised approach calculations. 
A sub-consolidated bank or a subsidiary bank uses only the losses it has incurred in the standardised 
approach calculations (and does not include losses incurred by other parts of the bank holding company). 
16. In case a subsidiary of a bank belonging to bucket 2 or higher does not meet the qualitative 
standards for the use of the Loss Component, this subsidiary must calculate the standardised approach 
capital requirements by applying 100% of the BI Component.  In such cases supervisors may require the 
bank to apply an ILM which is greater than 1. 
4. Minimum standards for the use of loss data under the standardised approach 
17. Banks with a BI greater than €1bn are required to use loss data as a direct input into the 
operational risk capital calculations. The soundness of data collection and the quality and integrity of the 
data are crucial to generating capital outcomes aligned with the bank’s operational loss  exposure. The 
minimum loss data standards are outlined in paragraphs 19 to 31. National supervisors should review the 
quality of banks’ loss data periodically. 
18. B anks which do not meet the loss data standards are required to hold capital that is at a minimum 
equal to 100% of the BIC. In such cases supervisors may require the bank to apply an ILM which is greater 
than 1. The exclusion of internal loss data due to no n-compliance with the loss data standards, and the 
application of any resulting multipliers, must be publicly disclosed. 
5. General criteria on loss data identification, collection and treatment 
19. The proper identification, collection and treatment of internal loss data are essential prerequisites 
to capital calculation under the standardised approach. The general criteria for the use of the LC are as 
follows: 
 
5  Risk-weighted assets for operational risk are equal to 12.5 times ORC.

[Page 135]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 131 
 
 
(a) Internally generated loss data calculations used for regulatory capital purposes must be based 
on a 10-year observation period. When the bank first moves to the standardised approach, a five-
year observation period is acceptable on an exceptional basis when good -quality data are 
unavailable for more than five years. 
(b) Internal loss data are most relevant when clearly linked to a bank’s current business activities, 
technological processes and risk management procedures. Therefore, a bank must have 
documented procedures and processes for the identification, collection and treatment of internal 
loss data. Such procedures and processes must be subject to validation before the use of the loss 
data within the operational risk capital requirement measurement methodology, and to regular 
independent reviews by internal and/or external audit functions. 
(c) For risk management purposes, and to assist in supervisory validation and/or review, a supervisor 
may request a bank to map its historical internal loss data into the relevant Level 1 supervisory 
categories as defined in Annex 9 of the Basel II Framework and to provide this data to supervisors. 
The bank must document criteria for allocating losses to the specified event types.  
(d) A bank’s internal loss data must be comprehensive and capture all material activities and 
exposures from all appropriate subsystems and geographic locations. The minimum threshold 
for including a loss event in the data collection and calculation of average annual losses is set at 
€20,000. At national discretion, for the purpose of the calculation of average annual losses, 
supervisors may increase the threshold to €100,000 for banks in buckets 2 and 3 (ie where the BI 
is greater than €1 bn). 
(e) Aside from information on gross loss amounts, the bank must collect information about the 
reference dates of operational risk event s, including the date when the event happened or first 
began (“date of occurrence”), where available; the date on which the bank became aware of the 
event (“date of discovery”); and the date (or dates) when a loss event results in a loss, reserve or 
provision against a loss being recognised in the bank’s profit and loss (P&L) accounts (“date of 
accounting”). In addition, the bank must collect information on recoveries of gross loss amounts 
as well as descriptive information about the drivers or causes of the loss event.6 The level of detail 
of any descriptive information should be commensurate with the size of the gross loss amount.  
(f) Operational loss events related to credit risk and that are accounted for in credit risk RWAs should 
not be included in the loss data set. Operational loss events that relate to credit risk, but are not 
accounted for in credit risk RWAs should be included in the loss data set. 
(g) Operational risk losses related to market risk are treated as operational risk for the purposes of 
calculating minimum regulatory capital under this framework and will therefore be subject to the 
the standardised approach for operational risk. 
(h) Banks must have processes to independently review the comprehensiveness and accuracy of loss 
data. 
 
6  Tax effects (eg reductions in corporate income tax liability due to operational losses) are not recoveries for purposes of th e 
standardised approach for operational risk.

[Page 136]
132 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
6. Specific criteria on loss data identification, collection and treatment 
Building of the standardised approach loss data set 
20. Building an acceptable loss data set from the available internal data requires that the bank 
develop policies and procedures to address several features, including gross loss definition, reference date 
and grouped losses. 
Gross loss, net loss, and recovery definitions 
21. Gross loss is a loss before recoveries of any type. Net loss is defined as the loss after taking into 
account the impact of recoveries. The recovery is an independent occurrence, related to the original loss 
event, separate in time, in which funds or inflows of economic benefits are received from a third party. 7 
22. Banks must be able to identify the gross loss amounts, non -insurance recoveries, and insurance 
recoveries for all operational loss events. Banks should use losses net of recoveries (including insurance 
recoveries) in the loss dataset. However, recoveries can be used to reduce losses only after the bank 
receives payment. Receivables do not count as recoveries. Verification of payments received to net losses 
must be provided to supervisors upon request. 
23. The following items must be included in the gross loss computation of the loss data set:  
(a) Direct charges, including impairments and settlements, to the bank’s P&L accounts and write -
downs due to the operational risk event; 
(b) Costs incurred as a consequence of the event including external expenses with a direct link to the 
operational risk event (eg legal expenses directly related to the event and fees paid to advisors, 
attorneys or suppliers) and costs of repair or replacement, incurred to restore the position that 
was prevailing before the operational risk event;  
(c) Provisions or reserves accounted for in the P&L against the potential operational loss impact; 
(d) Losses stemming from operational risk events with a definitive financial impact, which are 
temporarily booked in transitory and/or suspense accounts and are not yet reflected in the P&L 
(“pending losses”).8 Material pending losses should be included in the loss data set within a time 
period commensurate with the size and age of the pending item; and 
(e) Negative economic impacts booked in a financial accounting period, due to operational risk 
events impacting the cash flows or financial sta tements of previous financial accounting periods 
(timing losses”).9 Material “timing losses” should be included in the loss data set when they are 
due to operational risk events that span more than one financial accounting period and give rise 
to legal risk. 
 
7  Examples of recoveries are payments received from insurers, repayments received from perpetrators of fraud, and recoveries 
of misdirected transfers. 
8  For instance, in some countries, the impact of some events (eg legal events, damage to physical assets) may be known and 
clearly identifiable before these events are recognised through the establishment of a reserve. Moreover, the way this reserve 
is established (eg the date of discovery) can vary across banks or countries. 
9  Timing impacts typically relate to the occurrence of  operational risk events that result in the temporary distortion of an 
institution’s financial accounts (eg revenue overstatement, accounting errors and mark -to-market errors). While these events 
do not represent a true financial impact on the institution (net impact over time is zero), if the error continues across more than 
one financial accounting period, it may represent a material misrepresentation of the institution’s financial statements.

[Page 137]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 133 
 
 
24. The following items should be excluded from the gross loss computation of the loss data set: 
(a) Costs of general maintenance contracts on property, plant or equipment;  
(b) Internal or external expenditures to enhance the business after the operational ris k losses : 
upgrades, improvements, risk assessment initiatives and enhancements; and  
(c) Insurance premiums. 
25. Banks must use the date of accounting for building the loss data set. The bank must use a date 
no later than the date of accounting for including losses related to legal events in the loss data set. For 
legal loss events, the date of accounting is the date when a legal reserve is established for the probable 
estimated loss in the P&L. 
26. Losses caused by a common operational risk event or by relat ed operational risk events over 
time, but posted to the accounts over several years, should be allocated to the corresponding years of the 
loss database, in line with their accounting treatment.  
7. Exclusion of losses from the Loss Component 
27. Banking organisations may request supervisory approval to exclude certain operational loss 
events that are no longer relevant to the banking organisation's risk profile. The exclusion of internal loss 
events should be rare and supported by strong justification. In evaluating the relevance of operational loss 
events to the bank’s risk profile, supervisors will consider whether the cause of the loss event could occur 
in other areas of the bank’s operations. Taking settled legal exposures and divested businesses as 
examples, supervisors expect the organisation’s analysis to demonstrate that there is no similar or residual 
legal exposure and that the excluded loss experience has no relevance to other continuing activities or 
products.  
28. The total loss amount and number of exclusions must be disclosed under Pillar 3 with appropriate 
narratives, including total loss amount and number of exclusions. 
29. A request for loss exclusions is subject to a materiality threshold to be set by the supervisor (for 
example, the exc luded loss event should be greater than 5% of the bank’s average losses).  In addition, 
losses can only be excluded after being included in a bank’s operational risk loss database for a minimum 
period (for example, three years), to be specified by the super visor. Losses related to divested activities 
will not be subject to a minimum operational risk loss database retention period.  
8. Exclusions of divested activities from the Business Indicator 
30. Banking organisations may request supervisory approval to exclude divested activities from the 
calculation of the BI. Such exclusions must be disclosed under Pillar 3. 
9. Inclusion of losses and BI items related to mergers and acquisitions 
31. Losses and the measurement of the BI must include losses and BI items that result from 
acquisitions of relevant business and mergers.

[Page 138]
134 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
10. Disclosure 
32. All banks with a BI greater than €1bn, or which use internal loss data in the calculation of 
operational risk capital, are required to disclose their annual loss data for each of the ten years in the ILM 
calculation window. This includes banks in jurisdictions that have opted to set ILM equal to one. Loss data 
is required to be reported on both a gross basis and after recoveries and loss exclusions. All banks are 
required to disclose each of the BI sub -items for each of the three years of the BI c omponent calculation 
window.10 
Annex: Definition of Business Indicator components  
Business Indicator definitions  
BI 
Component 
P&L or balance 
sheet items Description Typical sub-items 
Interest, lease 
and dividend  
Interest income 
Interest income from all financial 
assets and other interest income 
(includes interest income from 
financial and operating leases and 
profits from leased assets) 
• Interest income from loans and 
advances, assets available for sale, 
assets held to maturity, trading 
assets, financial leases and 
operational leases 
• Interest income from hedge 
accounting derivatives 
• Other interest income 
• Profits from leased assets 
Interest expenses 
Interest expenses from all financial 
liabilities and other interest 
expenses 
(includes interest expense from 
financial and operating leases, 
losses, depreciation and impairment 
of operating leased assets) 
• Interest expenses from deposits, debt 
securities issued, financial leases, and 
operating leases 
• Interest expenses from hedge 
accounting derivatives 
• Other interest expenses 
• Losses from leased assets 
• Depreciation and impairment of 
operating leased assets 
Interest earning 
assets (balance 
sheet item) 
Total gross outstanding loans, advances, interest bearing securities (including 
government bonds), and lease assets measured at the end of each financial year 
Dividend income 
Dividend income from investments in stocks and funds not consolidated in the 
bank’s financial statements, including dividend income from non-consolidated 
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.  
Services 
Fee and 
commission 
income 
Income received from providing 
advice and services. Includes income 
received by the bank as an 
outsourcer of financial services. 
Fee and commission income from: 
• Securities (issuance, origination, 
reception, transmission, execution of 
orders on behalf of customers) 
• Clearing and settlement; Asset 
management; Custody; Fiduciary 
transactions; Payment services; 
Structured finance; Servicing of 
securitisations; Loan commitments 
 
10 The Committee will undertake a separate public consultation on the operational risk disclosure templates.

[Page 139]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 135 
 
 
and guarantees given; and foreign 
transactions 
Fee and 
commission 
expenses 
Expenses paid for receiving advice 
and services. Includes outsourcing 
fees paid by the bank for the supply 
of financial services, but not 
outsourcing fees paid for the supply 
of non-financial services (eg 
logistical, IT, human resources)  
Fee and commission expenses from:  
• Clearing and settlement; Custody; 
Servicing of securitisations; Loan 
commitments and guarantees 
received; and Foreign transactions 
Other operating 
income 
Income from ordinary banking 
operations not included in other BI 
items but of similar nature 
(income from operating leases 
should be excluded) 
• Rental income from investment 
properties 
• Gains from non-current assets and 
disposal groups classified as held for 
sale not qualifying as discontinued 
operations (IFRS 5.37) 
Other operating 
expenses 
Expenses and losses from ordinary 
banking operations not included in 
other BI items but of similar nature 
and from operational loss events 
(expenses from operating leases 
should be excluded) 
• Losses from non-current assets and 
disposal groups classified as held for 
sale not qualifying as discontinued 
operations (IFRS 5.37) 
• Losses incurred as a consequence of 
operational loss events (eg fines, 
penalties, settlements, replacement 
cost of damaged assets), which have 
not been provisioned/reserved for in 
previous years 
• Expenses related to establishing 
provisions/reserves for operational 
loss events 
Financial 
Net profit (loss) 
on the trading 
book 
• Net profit/loss on trading assets and trading liabilities (derivatives, debt 
securities, equity securities, loans and advances, short positions, other assets 
and liabilities) 
• Net profit/loss from hedge accounting 
• Net profit/loss from exchange differences 
Net profit (loss) 
on the banking 
book 
• Net profit/loss on financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
through profit and loss 
• Realised gains/losses on financial assets and liabilities not measured at fair 
value through profit and loss (loans and advances, assets available for sale, 
assets held to maturity, financial liabilities measured at amortised cost) 
• Net profit/loss from hedge accounting 
• Net profit/loss from exchange differences 
 
The following P&L items do not contribute to any of the items of the BI: 
• Income and expenses from insurance or reinsurance businesses 
• Premiums paid and reimbursements/payments received from insurance or reinsurance policies 
purchased 
• Administrative expenses, including staff expenses, outsourcing fees paid for the supply of non-
financial services (eg logistical, IT, human resources), and other administrative expenses (eg IT, 
utilities, telephone, travel, office supplies, postage) 
• Recovery of administrative expenses including recovery of payments on behalf of customers 
(eg taxes debited to customers) 
• Expenses of premises and fixed assets (except when these expenses result from operational loss 
events)

[Page 140]
136 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• Depreciation/amortisation of tangible and intangible assets (except depreciation related to 
operating lease assets, which should be included in financial and operating lease expenses)  
• Provisions/reversal of provisions (eg on pensions, commitments and guarantees given) except 
for provisions related to operational loss events 
• Expenses due to share capital repayable on demand 
• Impairment/reversal of impairment (eg on financial assets, non -financial assets, investments in 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates) 
• Changes in goodwill recognised in profit or loss  
• Corporate income tax (tax based on profits including current tax and deferred).

[Page 141]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 137 
 
 
Output floor 
Introduction 
1. To reduce excessive variability of risk-weighted assets and to enhance the comparability of risk-
weighted capital ratios, banks will be subject to a floor requirement that is applied to risk-weighted assets. 
The output floor will ensure that banks’ capital requirements do not fall below a certain percentage of 
capital requirements derived under standardised approaches. 
Output floor requirements 
2. As set out in the Basel III framework, banks must meet the following capital requirements:  
• Common Equity Tier 1 must be at least 4.5% of risk-weighted assets at all times. 
• Tier 1 capital must be at least 6.0% of risk-weighted assets at all times. 
• Total Capital (Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital) must be at least 8.0% of risk-weighted assets at all 
times.1 
3. In addition, a Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer is set at 2.5% of risk -weighted 
assets for all banks. 2 Banks may also be subject to a countercyclical capital buffer requirement. Banks 
identified as global systemically- important banks (G -SIBs) are also subject to additional higher -loss 
absorbency requirements and total loss-absorbing capacity requirements.3  
4. The risk-weighted assets that banks must use to determine compliance with the requirements set 
out in paragraphs 2 to 3 above must be calculated as the maximum of: (i) the total risk -weighted assets 
calculated using the approaches that the bank has supervisory approval to use in accordance with the 
Basel capital framework (including both standardised and internally-modelled based approaches); and (ii) 
72.5% of the total risk weighted assets , calculated using only the standardised approaches listed in 
paragraph 6. The latter element of this requirement is referred to as the output floor.  
5. In light of the forthcoming accounting revisions for expected credit loss, the Committee will 
review the consistency in the treatment of provisions for the purpose of calculating the output floor.  
Calculation of the output floor 
6. The standardised approaches to be used when calculating the output floor described in 
paragraph 4 are as follows: 
• Credit risk: the standardised approach for credit risk. 4 When calculating the degree of credit risk 
mitigation, banks must use the carrying value when applying the simple approach or the 
 
1  The Basel III framework is available at www.bis.org/publ/bcbs189.pdf. 
2  As set out in the Basel III framework, available at www.bis.org/publ/bcbs189.pdf. 
3  As set out in the FSB TLAC term sheet, available at www.fsb.org/wp-content/uploads/TLAC-Principles-and-Term-Sheet-for-
publication-final.pdf. 
4  As set out in the revised standardised approach for credit risk described in this document.

[Page 142]
138 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
comprehensive approach with standard supervisory haircuts. This also includes failed tr ades and 
non-delivery-versus-payment transactions as set out in Annex 3 of the Basel II framework  (June 
2006). 
• Counterparty credit risk : to calculate the exposure for derivatives, banks must use the 
standardised approach for measuring counterparty credit r isk (SA-CCR). The exposure amounts 
must then be multiplied by the relevant borrower risk weight using the standardised approach 
for credit risk to calculate RWA under the standardised approach for credit risk.  
• Credit valuation adjustment risk : the standar dised approach for CVA (SA -CVA), the Basic 
Approach (BA-CVA) or 100% of a bank’s counterparty credit risk capital requirement (depending 
on which approach the bank uses for CVA risk).5 
• Securitisation framework : the external ratings -based approach (SEC -ERBA), the standardised 
approach (SEC-SA) or a risk-weight of 1250%6  
• Market risk: the standardised approach for market risk. The SEC-ERBA, SEC-SA or a risk-weight of 
1250% must also be used when determining the default risk charge component for securitisations 
held in the trading book.7 
• Operational risk: the standardised approach for operational risk. 8 
7. The table below provides a simple example of how the capital floor must be calculated.  
 Pre-floor RWAs Standardised RWAs  72.5% of standardised RWAs 
Credit risk  62 124 89.9 
  - of which Asset Class A 45 80 58 
  - of which Asset Class B 5 32 23.2 
  - of which Asset Class C (not modelled) 12 12 8.7 
Market risk 2 4 2.9 
Operational risk (not modelled) 12 12 8.7 
Total RWA 76 140 101.5 
As the floored RWAs (101.5) are higher than the pre -floor RWAs (76) in this example, the bank would use the former to determine the 
capital requirements set out in paragraphs 2 to 4. 
Disclosure requirements 
8. Banks must disclose two sets of risk-weighted capital ratios: (i) ratios that exclude the capital floor 
in the calculation of risk-weighted assets; and (ii) ratios that include the capital floor in the calculation of 
risk-weighted assets. In addition, banks must disclose more granular information related to the calculation 
of their risk -weighted assets under internally -modelled and standardised approaches, which will be set 
out in forthcoming disclosure templates as part of the Committee’s Pillar 3 disclosu re framework.  
 
5  As set out in the revised credit valuation adjustment framework in this document.  
6  As set out in the securitisation framework, available at www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d374.pdf.  
7  As set out in the revised market risk framework, available at www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d352.pdf.  
8  As set out in the revised operational risk framework in this document.

[Page 143]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 139 
 
 
Implementation date and transitional measures 
9. The output floor will be implemented as of 1 January 2022 , based on the following calibration 
phase-in arrangement: 
 
Date Output floor calibration 
1 Jan 2022 50% 
1 Jan 2023 55% 
1 Jan 2024 60% 
1 Jan 2025 65% 
1 Jan 2026 70% 
1 Jan 2027 72.5% 
 
10. During the phase-in period, supervisors may exercise national discretion to cap the incremental 
increase in a bank’s total RWAs that results from the application of the floor. This transitional cap will be 
set at 25% of a bank’s RWAs before the application of the floor. In the example shown in paragraph 7, the 
application of this national discretion by the supervisor would cap the bank’s RWAs to 95 (ie a 25% increase 
of its pre-floor RWAs of 76).

[Page 144]
140 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
Leverage ratio 
Introduction  
1. An underlying cause of the global financial crisis was the build -up of excessive on - and off-
balance sheet leverage in the banking system. In many cases, banks built up excessive leverage while 
reporting strong risk-based capital ratios. At the height of the crisis, financial markets forced the banking 
sector to reduce its leverage in a manner that amplified downward pressures on asset prices. This 
deleveraging process exacerbated the feedback loop between losses, falling bank capital and contracting 
credit availability.  
2. The Basel III framework introduced a simple, transparent, non-risk-based leverage ratio to act as 
a credible supplementary measure to the risk-based capital requirements.1 The leverage ratio is intended 
to: 
• restrict the build -up of leverage in the banking sector to avoid destabilising deleveraging 
processes that can damage the broader financial system and the economy; and 
• reinforce the risk-based requirements with a simple, non-risk-based “backstop” measure.  
3. The Committee is of the view that a simple leverage ratio framework is critical and complementary 
to the risk-based capital framework, and that the leverage ratio should adequately capture both the on - 
and off-balance sheet sources of banks’ leverage.  
Definition and requirements 
4. The leverage ratio is defined as the capital measure (the numerator) divided by the exposure 
measure (the denominator), with this ratio expressed as a percentage: 
Leverage ratio = Capital measure
Exposure measure  
5. The capital measure for the leverage ratio is Tier 1 capital – comprising Common Equity Tier 1 
and/or Additional Tier 1 instruments – as defined in paragraphs 49 to 96 of the Basel III framework.  In 
other words, the capital measure used for the leverage ratio at any particular point in time is the Tier 1 
capital measure applicable at that time under the risk -based framework. The exposure measure for the 
leverage ratio is defined in paragraphs 20 to 59 of this section. 
6. Both the capital measure and the exposure measure are to be calculated on a quarter-end basis. 
However, banks may, subject to supervisory approval, use more frequent calculations (eg daily or monthly 
averaging) as long as they do so consistently. 
7. Banks must meet a 3% leverage ratio minimum requirement at all times. 
8.  In addition, to maintain the relative roles of the risk -weighted and leverage ratio requirements, 
banks identified as global systemically- important banks (G-SIBs) according the G-SIB standard must also 
meet a leverage ratio buffer requirement. 2 Consistent with the capital measure required to meet the 
 
1  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Basel III: A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems, 
June 2011, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs189.pdf. 
2  See Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Global systemically important banks: updated assessment methodology and the 
higher loss absorbency requirement, July 2013, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs255.pdf.

[Page 145]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 141 
 
 
leverage ratio minimum described in paragraph 5, G-SIBs must meet the leverage ratio buffer with Tier 1 
capital.  
9.  The leverage ratio buffer will be set at 50% of a G -SIB’s higher-loss absorbency risk- weighted 
requirements. For example, a G-SIB subject to a 2% higher-loss absorbency requirement would be subject 
to a 1% leverage ratio buffer requirement.  
10. The design of the leverage ratio buffer is aki n to the capital buffers in the risk -weighted 
framework. As such, the leverage ratio buffer will include minimum capital conservation ratios divided in 
five ranges. Capital distribution constraints will be imposed on a G -SIB which does not meet its leverag e 
ratio buffer requirement.  
11. The capital distribution constraints imposed on G- SIBs will depend on the G -SIB’s CET1 risk -
weighted ratio and its leverage ratio. A G -SIB which meets both its CET1 risk -weighted requirements 
(defined as a 4.5% minimum requirement, a 2.5% capital conservation buffer , the G -SIB higher loss -
absorbency requirement  and countercyclical capital buffer if applicable) and its Tier 1 leverage ratio 
requirement (defined as a 3% leverage ratio minimum requirement and the G -SIB leverage ratio buffer) 
will not be subject to minimum capital conservation standards. A G-SIB which does not meet one of these 
requirements will be subject to the associated minimum capital conservation standards. A G -SIB which 
does not meet both requirements will be subject to the higher minimum capital conservation standard 
related to its risk-weighted capital requirement or leverage ratio. 
12. As an example, the table below shows the minimum capital conservation standards for the CET1 
risk-weighted requirements and Tier 1 leverage ratio requirements of a G -SIB in the first bucket of the 
higher loss-absorbency requirements (ie where a 1% risk-weighted G-SIB capital buffer applies).  
CET1 risk-weighted ratio Tier 1 leverage ratio Minimum capital conservation ratios (expressed 
as a percentage of earnings) 
4.5%–5.375% 3%–3.125% 100% 
> 5.375%–6.25% > 3.125%–3.25% 80% 
> 6.25%–7.125% > 3.25%–3.375% 60% 
> 7.125%–8% > 3.375%–3.50% 40% 
> 8.0% > 3.50% 0% 
 
Implementation and monitoring 
13. The implementation timeline for the leverage ratio requirement is as follows:

[Page 146]
142 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• 1 January 2018: Implementation of Pillar 1 minimum requirement per the January 2014 version 
of the standard3 (in addition to ongoing Pillar 3 disclosure per the same version of the standard).4 
• 1 January 2022: Implementation of Pillar 1 minimum requirement (in addition to any applicable 
G-SIB buffer requirement) and associated Pillar 3 disclosure requirements5 per the revised version 
of the standard described in this section.  
14.  The leverage ratio buffer requirement on 1 January 2022 shall be based on the Financial Stability 
Board’s 2020 list of G-SIBs (based on end-2019 data). For banks that are subsequently identified as G-SIBs 
or which are no longer identified as G-SIBs, the same transitional arrangements will apply as in the higher-
loss absorbency requirement framework 
15. The leverage ratio buffer requirement will be updated annually to reflect the annual updated list 
of G -SIB requirements. G -SIBs subject to a revised higher -loss absorbency requirement would also be 
subject to a revised leverage ratio buffer requirement, calibrated at 50% of the former requirement. Both 
requirements would follow the same implementation arrangements. Jurisdictions may impose a higher 
leverage ratio buffer requirement. 
16. The Committee will continue to monitor the impact of the leverage ratio framework by means of 
the Basel III monitoring Quantitative Impact Study (QIS) exercise. The focus of the Committee’s monitoring 
will include assessments of any impact the standard might have on banks’ business activities and financial 
markets in general, including reviewing any impact on SFT markets and market liquidity.  
17. In addition, the Committee will continue to monitor the impact of the leverage ratio’s treatment 
of client cleared derivative transactions and, within two years after this publication of this document, 
conclude a review of the impact of the leverage ratio on banks’ provision of clearing services and any 
consequent impact on the resilience of central counterparty clearing. 
Scope of consolidation  
18. The leverage ratio framework follows the same scope of regulatory consolidation, including 
consolidation criteria, as is used for the risk- based capital framework. 6 This is set out in Part I ( Scope of 
Application) of the Basel II framework (June 2006). 
19. Treatment of investments in the capital of banking, financial, insurance and commercial entities 
that are outside the regulatory scope of consolidation: where a banking, financial, insurance or commercial 
entity is outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, only the investment in the capital of such entities 
(ie only the carrying value of the investment, as opposed to the underlying assets and other exposures of 
the investee) is to be included in the leverage ratio exposure measure. However, investments in the capital 
of such entities that are deducted from Tier 1 capital as set out in paragraph 22 may be excluded from the 
leverage ratio exposure measure. 
 
3  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Basel III leverage ratio framework and disclosure requirements , January 2014, 
www.bis.org/publ/bcbs270.pdf. 
4  The leverage ratio disclosure requirements were implemented on 1 January 2015. Pillar 3 disclosure requirements for the 
January 2014 version of the leverage ratio framework were consolidated into a consultative document on Pillar 3 requirements 
published in March 2016. See Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Consultative Document – Pillar 3 disclosure 
requirements – consolidated and enhanced framework; March 2016, www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d356.pdf. 
5  The Committee will propose revisions to disclosure requirements to address the revised version of the leverage ratio framework 
in a forthcoming phase of the Pillar 3 review process. 
6  For example, if proportional consolidation is applied for regulatory consolidation under the risk -based framework, the same 
criteria shall be applied for leverage ratio purposes.

[Page 147]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 143 
 
 
Exposure measure 
20. The leverage ratio exposure measure generally follows gross accounting values.  
21. Unless specified differently below, banks must not take account of physical or financial collateral, 
guarantees or other credit risk mitigation techniques to reduce the leverage ratio exposure measure, nor 
may banks net assets and liabilities. 
22. To ensure consistency, any item deducted from Tier 1 capital according to the Basel III framework 
and regulatory adjustments other than those related to liabilities may be deducted from the leverage ratio 
exposure measure. Three examples follow:  
• where a banking, financial or insurance entity is not included in the regulatory scope of 
consolidation as set out in paragraph 18, the amount of any investment in the capital of that 
entity that is totally or partially deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital or from 
Additional Tier 1 capital of the bank following the corresponding deduction approach  in 
paragraphs 84 to 89 of the Basel III framework may also be deducted from the leverage ratio 
exposure measure; 
• for banks using the internal ratings -based (IRB) approach to determining capital requirements 
for credit risk, paragraph 73 of the Basel III framework requires any shortfall in the stock of eligible 
provisions relative to expected loss amounts to be deducted from CET1 capital. The same amount 
may be deducted from the leverage ratio exposure measure; and 
• prudent valuation adjustments (PVAs) for exposures to less liquid positions, other than those 
related to liabilities, that are deducted from Tier 1 capital as per paragraph 718 (cxii) of the Basel II 
framework as amended by the standard Minimum capital requirements for market risk7 (hereafter 
“market risk framework”) may be deducted from the leverage ratio exposure measure.  
23. Liability items must not be deducted from the leverage ratio exposure measure. For example, 
gains/losses on fair valued liabilities or accounting value adjustments on derivative liabilities due to 
changes in the bank’s own credit risk as described in paragraph 75 of the Basel III framework must not be 
deducted from the leverage ratio exposure measure. 
24. With regard to traditional securitisations, an originating bank may exclude securitised exposures 
from its leverage ratio exposure measure if the securitisation meets the operational requirements for the 
recognition of risk transfer ence according to paragraph 24 of the standard Revisions to the securitisation 
framework.8 Banks meeting these conditions must include any retained securitisation exposures in their 
leverage ratio exposure measure. In all other cases, eg traditional securitisations that do not meet the 
operational requirements for the recognition of risk transfer ence or synthetic securitisations, the 
securitised exposures must be included in the leverage ratio exposure measure.9 
25. Banks and supervisors should be particularly vigilant to transactions and structures that have the 
result of inadequately capturing banks’ sources of leverage. Examples of concerns that might arise in such 
leverage ratio exposure measure minimising transactions and structures may include: securities financing 
transactions where exposure to the counterparty increases as the counterparty’s credit quality decreases 
or securities financing transactions in which the credit quality of the counterparty is positively correlated 
 
7  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Minimum capital requirements for market risk , January 2016, 
www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d352.pdf. 
8  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Revisions to the securitisation framework , December 2014 (rev. July 2016), 
www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d374.pdf. 
9  The Committee confirms the treatment specified in paragraph 24 as an interpretation of the January 2014 version of the 
leverage ratio standard. Therefore, the treatment may also be applied in the January 2014 version of the leverage ratio standard 
while that version serves as the Pillar 1 minimum requirement.

[Page 148]
144 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
with the value of the securities received in the transaction (ie the credit quality of the counterparty falls 
when the value of the securities falls); banks that normally act as principal but adopt an agency model to 
transact in derivatives and SFTs in order to benefit from the more favourable treatment permitted for 
agency transactions under the leverage ratio framework; collateral swap trades structured to mitigate 
inclusion in the leverage ratio exposure measure; or use of structures to move assets off the balance sheet. 
This list of examples is by no means exhaustive. Where supervisors are concerned that such transactions 
are not adequately captured in the leverage ratio exposure measure or may lead to a potentially 
destabilising deleveraging process, they should carefully scrutinise these transactions and consider a range 
of actions to address such concerns. Supervisory actions may include requiring enhancements in banks’ 
management of leverage, imposing operational requirements (eg additional reporting to supervisors) 
and/or requiring that the relevant exposure is adequately capitalised through a Pillar 2 capital charge. 
These examples of supervisory actions are merely indicative and by no means exhaustive.  
26. At national discretion, and to facilitate the implementation of monetary policies, a jurisdiction 
may temporarily exempt central bank reserves from the leverage ratio exposure measure in exceptional 
macroeconomic circumstances. To maintain the same level of res ilience provided by the leverage ratio, a 
jurisdiction applying this discretion must also increase the calibration of the minimum leverage ratio 
requirement commensurately to offset the impact of exempting central bank reserves. In addition, in order 
to maintain the comparability and transparency of the Basel III leverage ratio framework, banks will be 
required to disclose the impact of any temporary exemption alongside ongoing public disclosure of the 
leverage ratio without application of such exemption. 10 
27. A bank’s total leverage ratio exposure measure is the sum of the following exposures: (a) on -
balance sheet exposures (excluding on -balance sheet derivative and securities financing transaction 
exposures); (b) derivative exposures; (c) securities financing transaction  (SFT) exposures ; and (d) off-
balance sheet (OBS) items. The specific treatments for these four main exposure types are defined below.  
(a)  On-balance sheet exposures  
28. Banks must include all balance sheet assets in their leverage ratio e xposure measure, including 
on-balance sheet derivatives collateral and collateral for SFTs, with the exception of on -balance sheet 
derivative and SFT assets that are covered in paragraphs 32 to 56 below.11  
29. On-balance sheet, non-derivative assets are included in the leverage ratio exposure measure at 
their accounting values less deductions for associated specific  provisions. In addition, general provisions 
or general loan loss reserves as defined in paragraph 60 of the Basel III framework which have re duced 
Tier 1 capital may be deducted from the leverage ratio exposure measure. 12 
30. The accounting for regular-way purchases or sales13 of financial assets that have not been settled 
(hereafter “unsettled trades”) differs across and within accounting frameworks, with the result that those 
unsettled trades can be accounted for either on the trade date (trade date accounting) or on the settlement 
 
10  The treatment specified in paragraph 26 may also be applied in the January 2014 version of the leverage ratio standard while 
that version serves as the Pillar 1 minimum requirement. 
11 Where a bank according to its operative accounting framework recognises fiduciary assets on the balance sheet, these assets 
can be excluded from the leverage ratio exposure measure provided that the assets meet the IFRS 9 criteria for derecognition 
and, where applicable, IFRS 10 for deconsolidation.  
12  Although paragraph 60 of the Basel III framework specifies the treatment of general provisions/general loan-loss reserves for 
banks using the standardised approach for credit risk, for the purposes of the leverage ratio exposure measure the definition  
of general provisions/gene ral loan -loss reserves specified in paragraph 60 of the Basel III framework applies to all banks 
regardless of whether they use the standardised approach or the internal ratings-based (IRB) approach for credit risk for their 
risk-based capital calculations. 
13 For the purposes of this treatment, “regular-way purchases or sales” are purchases or sales of financial assets under contracts 
for which the terms require delivery of the assets within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention i n 
the marketplace concerned.

[Page 149]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 145 
 
 
date (settlement date accounting). For the purpose of the leverage ratio exposure measure, banks using 
trade date accounting must reverse out any offsetting between cash receivables for unsettled sales and 
cash payables for unsettled purchases of financial assets that may be recognised under the applicable 
accounting framework, but may offset between those cash r eceivables and cash payables (regardless of 
whether such offsetting is recognised under the applicable accounting framework) if the following 
conditions are met: 
• the financial assets bought and sold that are associated with cash payables and receivables ar e 
fair valued through income and included in the bank’s regulatory trading book as specified by 
paragraphs 8 to 20 of the market risk framework; and  
• the transactions of the financial assets are settled on a delivery-versus-payment (DVP) basis. 
Banks using settlement date accounting will be subject to the treatment set out in paragraphs 57 
to 59 and paragraph 9 of the Annex. 
31. Cash pooling refers to arrangements involving treasury products whereby a bank combines the 
credit and/or debit balances of several individual participating customer accounts into a single account 
balance to facilitate cash and/or liquidity management. For purposes of the leverage ratio exposure 
measure, where a cash pooling arrangement entails a transfer at least on a daily basis of the credit and/or 
debit balances of the individual participating customer accounts into a single account balance, the 
individual participating customer accounts are deemed to be extinguished and transformed into a single 
account balance upon the transfer provided the bank is not liable for the balances on an individual basis 
upon the transfer. Thus, the basis of the leverage ratio exposure measure for such a cash pooling 
arrangement is the single account balance and not the individual participating custome r accounts. When 
the transfer of credit and/or debit balances of the individual participating customer accounts does not 
occur daily, for purposes of the leverage ratio exposure measure, extinguishment and transformation into 
a single account balance is deemed to occur and this single account balance may serve as the basis of the 
leverage ratio exposure measure provided all of the following conditions are met:  
• in addition to providing for the several individual participating customer accounts, the cash 
pooling arrangement provides for a single account, into which the balances of all individual 
participating customer accounts can be transferred and thus extinguished; 
• the bank (i) has a legally enforceable right to transfer the balances of the individual participating 
customer accounts into a single account so that the bank is not liable for the balances on an 
individual basis and (ii) at any point in time, the bank must have the discretion and be in a position 
to exercise this right; 
• the bank’s supervisor does  not deem as inadequate the frequency by which the balances of 
individual participating customer accounts are transferred to a single accont;  
• there are no maturity mismatches among the balances of the individual participating customer 
accounts included in the cash pooling arrangement or all balances are either overnight or on 
demand; and 
• the bank charges or pays interest and/or fees based on the combined balance of the individual 
participating customer accounts included in the cash pooling arrangement.  
In the event the abovementioned conditions are not met, the individual balances of the 
participating customer accounts must be reflected separately in the leverage ratio exposure measure.  
(b) Derivative exposures 
32. Treatment of derivatives : for the purpose o f the leverage ratio exposure measure, exposures to 
derivatives are included by means of two components: (a) replacement cost (RC); and (b) potential future

[Page 150]
146 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
exposure (PFE). The leverage ratio framework uses the method set out below to capture both of these  
components. 
33. Banks must calculate their exposures associated with all derivative transactions, including where 
a bank sells protection using a credit derivative, as a scalar multiplier alpha set at 1.4 times the sum of the 
RC14 and the PFE, as described in paragraph 34. If the derivative exposure is covered by an eligible bilateral 
netting contract as specified in the Annex, a specific treatment may be applied.15 Written credit derivatives 
are subject to an additional treatment, as set out in paragraphs 44 to 49 below. 
34. For derivative transactions not covered by an eligible bilateral netting contract as specified in 
paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Annex, the amount to be included in the leverage ratio exposure measure is 
determined, for each transaction separately, as follows: 
exposure measure = alpha * (RC + PFE) 
where 
• alpha = 1.4; 
• RC = the replacement cost calculated according to paragraph 2 of the Annex; and  
• PFE = an amount for PFE calculated according to paragraph 3 of the Annex. 
35. Bilateral netting : wh en an eligible bilateral netting contract is in place as specified in  
paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Annex, the formula in paragraph 34 is applied at the netting set level as 
described in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Annex.  
36. Treatment of related collateral: collateral received in connection with derivative contracts has two 
countervailing effects on leverage: 
• it reduces counterparty exposure; but 
• it can also increase the economic resources at the disposal of the bank, as the bank can use the 
collateral to leverage itself. 
37. C ollateral received  in connection with derivative contracts does not necessarily reduce the 
leverage inherent in a bank’s derivative position, which is generally the case if the settlement exposure 
arising from the underlying derivative contract is not reduced. As a general principle of the Basel III 
leverage ratio framework, collateral received may not be netted against derivative exposures whether or 
not netting is permitted under the bank’s operative accounting or risk -based framework. Hence, when 
calculating the exposure amount by applying paragraphs 33 to 35 above, a bank must not reduce the 
leverage ratio exposure measure amount by any collateral received from the counterparty. This implies 
that the RC cannot be reduced by collateral received and that the multiplier referenced in paragraph 3 of 
 
14  If, under a bank’s national accounting standards, there is no accounting measure of exposure for certain derivative instruments 
because they are held (completely) off balance sheet, the bank must use the sum of positive fair values of these derivatives as 
the replacement cost. 
15  These are netting rules of the Basel II framework excepting the rules for cross -product netting in Annex 4, Section III  
(ie netting across product categories such as derivatives and SFTs is not permitted in determining the leverage ratio exposure 
measure). However, where a bank has a cross -product netting agreement in place that meets the eligibility criteria of 
paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Annex, it may choose to perform netting separately in each product category provided that all other 
conditions for netting in this product category that are applicable to the current framework are met.

[Page 151]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 147 
 
 
the Annex is fixed at one for the purpose of the PFE calculation. However, the maturity factor in the PFE 
add-on calculation can recognise the PFE -reducing effect from the regular exchange of v ariation margin 
as specified in paragraph 3 of the Annex.  
38. Similarly, with regard to collateral provided, banks must gross up their leverage ratio exposure 
measure by the amount of any derivatives collateral provided where the provision of that collateral has 
reduced the value of their balance sheet assets under their operative accounting framework.  
39. Treatment of cash variation margin : in the treatment of derivative exposures for the purpose of 
the leverage ratio exposure measure, the cash portion of variation margin exchanged between 
counterparties may be viewed as a form of pre-settlement payment if the following conditions are met: 
(i) For trades not cleared through a qualifying central counterparty (QCCP) 16 the cash received by 
the recipient counterparty is not segregated. Cash variation margin would satisfy the non -
segregation criterion if the recipient counterparty has no restrictions by law, regulation, or any 
agreement with the counterparty on the ability to use the cash received (ie the cash variation 
margin received is used as its own cash). 
(ii) Variation margin is calculated and exchanged on at least a daily basis based on mark- to-market 
valuation of derivative positions. To meet this criterion, derivative positions must be valued daily 
and cash variation margin must be transferred at least daily to the counterparty or to the 
counterparty’s account, as appropriate. Cash variation margin exchanged on the morning of the 
subsequent trading day based on the previous, end -of-day market values would meet this 
criterion. 
(iii) The variation margin is received in a currency specified in the derivative cont ract, governing 
master netting agreement (MNA), credit support annex (CSA) to the qualifying MNA or as defined 
by any netting agreement with a CCP. 
(iv) Variation margin exchanged is the full amount that would be necessary to extinguish the mark -
to-market exposure of the derivative subject to the threshold and minimum transfer amounts 
applicable to the counterparty.17  
(v) Derivative transactions and variation margins are covered by a single MNA between the legal 
entities that are the counterparties in the derivative transaction. The MNA must explicitly stipulate 
that the counterparties agree to settle net any payment obligations covered by such a netting 
agreement, taking into account any variation margin received or provided if a credit event occurs 
involving either counterparty. The MNA must be legally enforceable and effective (ie it satisfies 
the conditions in paragraph 4 (c) and paragraph 5 of the Annex) in all relevant jurisdictions, 
including in the event of default and bankruptcy or insolvency. For the purposes of this 
paragraph, the term “MNA” includes any netting agreement that provides legally enforceable 
rights of offset18 and a Master MNA may be deemed to be a single MNA.  
40. If the conditions in paragraph 39 are met, the cash portion of variation  margin received may be 
used to reduce the replacement cost portion of the leverage ratio exposure measure, and the receivables 
assets from cash variation margin provided may be deducted from the leverage ratio exposure measure 
as follows: 
 
16  A QCCP is defined as in Annex 4, Section I, A. General Terms of the Basel II framework as amended by the standard Capital 
requirements for bank exposures to central counterparties (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Capital requirements for 
bank exposures to central counterparties, April 2014, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs282.pdf). 
17  In situations where a margin dispute arises, the amount of non- disputed variation margin that has been exchanged can be 
recognised. 
18  This is to take into account the fact that, for netting agreements employed by CCPs, no standardisation has currently emerged 
that would be comparable with respect to over-the-counter netting agreements for bilateral trading.

[Page 152]
148 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• In the case of c ash variation margin received, the receiving bank may reduce the replacement 
cost (but not the PFE component) of the exposure amount of the derivative asset as specified in 
paragraph 2 of the Annex. 
• In the case of cash variation margin provided  to a counte rparty, the posting bank may deduct 
the resulting receivable from its leverage ratio exposure measure where the cash variation margin 
has been recognised as an asset under the bank’s operative accounting framework, and instead 
include the cash variation ma rgin provided in the calculation of the derivative replacement cost 
as specified in paragraph 2 of the Annex. 
41. Treatment of clearing services : where a bank acting as clearing member (CM) 19 offers clearing 
services to clients, the CM’s trade exposures to the central counterparty (CCP) that arise when the CM is 
obligated to reimburse the client for any losses suffered due to changes in the value of its transactions in 
the event that the CCP defaults must be captured by applying the same treatment that appli es to any 
other type of derivative transaction. However, if the CM, based on the contractual arrangements with the 
client, is not obligated to reimburse the client for any losses suffered in the event that a QCCP defaults, 
the CM need not recognise the res ulting trade exposures to the QCCP in the leverage ratio exposure 
measure. In addition, where a bank provides clearing services as a “higher level client” within a multi-level 
client structure,20 the bank need not recognise in its leverage ratio exposure measure the resulting trade 
exposures to the CM or to an entity that serves as a higher level client to the bank in the leverage ratio 
exposure measure if it meets all of the following conditions: 
• The offsetting transactions are identified by the QCCP as higher level client transactions and 
collateral to support them is held by the QCCP and/or the CM, as applicable, under arrangements 
that prevent any losses to the higher level client due to: (i) the default or insolvency of the CM, 
(ii) the default or insolvency of the CM’s other clients, and (iii) the joint default or insolvency of 
the CM and any of its other clients;21 
• The bank must have conducted a sufficient legal review (and undertake such further review as 
necessary to ensure continuing enforceability) a nd have a well- founded basis to conclude that, 
in the event of legal challenge, the relevant courts and administrative authorities would find that 
such arrangements mentioned above would be legal, valid, binding and enforceable under 
relevant laws of the relevant jurisdiction(s); 
• Relevant laws, regulation, rules, contractual or administrative arrangements provide that the 
offsetting transactions with the defaulted or insolvent CM are highly likely to continue to be 
indirectly transacted through the QCCP, or  by the QCCP, if the CM defaults or becomes 
insolvent.22 In such circumstances, the higher level client positions and collateral with the QCCP 
will be transferred at market value unless the higher level client requests to close out the position 
at market value; and 
 
19  For the purposes of this paragraph, the terms “clearing member”, “trade exposure”, “central counterparty” and “qualifying 
central counterparty” are defined as in Annex 4, Section I, A. General Terms of the Basel II framework as amended. 
20  A multi-level client structure is one in which banks can centrally clear as indirect clients; that is, when clearing services are 
provided to the ba nk by an institution which is not a direct clearing member, but is itself a client of a clearing member or 
another clearing client. The term “higher level client” refers to the institution that provides clearing services. 
21  That is, upon the insolvency of the clearing member, there is no legal impediment (other than the need to obtain a court order 
to which the client is entitled) to the transfer of the collateral belonging to clients of a defaulting clearing member to the QCCP, 
to one of more other surviving clearing members or to the client or the client’s nominee.  
22  If there is a clear precedent for transactions being ported at a QCCP and industry intent for this practice to continue, then these 
factors must be considered when assessing if trades are highly likely to be ported. The fact that QCCP documentation does not 
prohibit client trades from being ported is not sufficient to say they are highly likely to be ported.

[Page 153]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 149 
 
 
• The bank is not obligated to reimburse its client for any losses suffered in the event of default of 
either the CM or the QCCP. 
42. Where a client enters directly into a derivative transaction with the CCP and the CM guarantees 
the performance of its client’s derivative trade exposures to the CCP, the bank acting as the CM for the 
client to the CCP must calculate its related leverage ratio exposure resulting from the guarantee as a 
derivative exposure as set out in paragraphs 33 to 40, as if it had entered directly into the transaction with 
the client, including with regard to the receipt or provision of cash variation margin. 
43. For the purposes of paragraphs 41 and 42, an entity affiliated to the bank acting as a CM may be 
considered a client if it is outside the relevant scope of regulatory consolidation at the level at which the 
leverage ratio is applied. In contrast, if an affiliate entity falls within the regulatory scope of consolidation, 
the trade between the affiliate entity and the CM is eliminated in the course of consolidation but the CM 
still has a trade exposure to the CCP. In this case, the transaction with the CCP will be considered 
proprietary and the exemption in paragraph 41 will not apply. 
44. Additional treatment for written cred it derivatives: in addition to the CCR exposure arising from 
the fair value of the contracts, written credit derivatives create a notional credit exposure arising from the 
creditworthiness of the reference entity. The Committee therefore believes that it i s appropriate to treat 
written credit derivatives consistently with cash instruments (eg loans, bonds) for the purposes of the 
leverage ratio exposure measure. 
45. In order to capture the credit exposure to the underlying reference entity, in addition to the above 
treatment for derivatives and related collateral, the effective notional amount referenced by a written credit 
derivative is to be included in the leverage ratio exposure measure unless the written credit derivative is 
included in a transaction cleared on the behalf of a client of the bank acting as a CM (or acting as a clearing 
services provider in a multi-level client structure as referenced in paragraph 41) and the transaction meets 
the requirements of paragraph 41 for the exclusion of trade exposures to the QCCP (or, in the case of a 
multi-level client structure, the requirements of paragraph 41 for the exclusion of trade exposures to the 
CM or the QCCP). The “effective notional amount” is obtained by adjusting the notional amount to reflect 
the true exposure of contracts that are leveraged or otherwise enhanced by the structure of the 
transaction. Further, the effective notional amount of a written credit derivative may be reduced by any 
negative change in fair value amount that has been incorporated into the calculation of Tier 1 capital with 
respect to the written credit derivative.23, 24 The resulting amount may be further reduced by the effective 
notional amount of a purchased credit derivative on the same reference name, provided that:  
• the credit protection purchased through credit derivatives is otherwise subject to the same or 
more conservative material terms as those in the corresponding written credit derivative. This 
ensures that if a bank provides written protection via some type o f credit derivative, the bank 
 
23  For example, if a written credit derivative had a positive fair value of 20 on one date and has a negative fair value of 10 on a 
subsequent reporting date, the effective notional amount of the credit derivative may be reduced by 10. The effective notional 
amount cannot be reduced by 30. However, if on the subsequent reporting date the credit derivative has a positive fair value 
of five, the effective notional amount cannot be reduced at all. 
24  This treatment is consistent with the rationale that the effective notional amounts included in the exposure measure may be 
capped at the level of the maximum potential loss, which means that the maximum potential loss at the reporting date is the 
notional amount of the credit derivative minus any negative fair value that has already reduced Tier 1 capital.

[Page 154]
150 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
may only recognise offsetting from another purchased credit derivative to the extent that the 
purchased protection is certain to deliver a payment in all potential future states. Material terms 
include the level of subordination, optionality, credit events, reference and any other 
characteristics relevant to the valuation of the derivative; 25 
• the remaining maturity of the credit protection purchased through credit derivatives is equal to 
or greater than the remaining maturity of the written credit derivative; 
• the credit protection purchased through credit derivatives is not purchased from a counterparty 
whose credit quality is highly correlated with the value of the reference obligation in the sense 
specified in paragraph 101 of the Basel III framework; 26 
• in the event that the effective notional amount of a written credit derivative is reduced by any 
negative change in fair value reflected in the bank’s Tier 1 capital, the effective notional amount 
of the offsetting credit protection purchased through credit derivatives must also be reduced by 
any resulting positive change in fair value reflected in Tier 1 capital; and 
• the credit protection purchased through credit derivatives is not included in a transaction that 
has been cleared on behalf of a client (or that has been cleared by the bank in its role as a clearing 
services provider in a multi-level client services structure as referenced in paragraph 41) and for 
which the effective notional amount referenced by the corresponding written credit derivative is 
excluded from the leverage ratio exposure measure according to this paragraph.  
46. For the purposes of paragraph 45, the term “written credit derivative” refers to a broad range of 
credit derivatives through which a bank effective ly provides credit protection and is not limited solely to 
credit default swaps and total return swaps. For example, all options where the bank has the obligation to 
provide credit protection under certain conditions qualify as “written credit derivatives” . The effective 
notional amount of such options sold by the bank may be offset by the effective notional amount of 
options by which the bank has the right to purchase credit protection which fulfils the conditions of 
paragraph 45. For example, the conditio n of same or more conservative material terms as those in the 
corresponding written credit derivatives as referenced in paragraph 45 can be considered met only when 
the strike price of the underlying purchased credit protection is equal to or lower than th e strike price of 
the underlying sold credit protection.  
47. For the purposes of paragraph 45, two reference names are considered identical only if they refer 
to the same legal entity. Credit protection on a pool of reference names purchased through credi t 
derivatives may offset credit protection sold on individual reference names if the credit protection 
purchased is economically equivalent to purchasing credit protection separately on each of the individual 
names in the pool (this would, for example, be the case if a bank were to purchase credit protection on an 
entire securitisation structure). If a bank purchases credit protection on a pool of reference names through 
credit derivatives, but the credit protection purchased does not cover the entire pool (ie the protection 
covers only a subset of the pool, as in the case of an nth-to -default credit derivative or a securitisation 
tranche), then the written credit derivatives on the individual reference names may not be offset. However, 
 
25  For example, the application of the same material terms condition would result in the following treatments: 
• in the case of single name credit derivatives, the credit protection purchased through credit derivatives is on a reference 
obligation which ranks pari passu with or is junior to the underlying reference obligation of the written credit derivative. 
Credit protection purchased through credit derivatives that references a subordinated position may offset written credit 
derivatives on a more senior position of the same reference entity as long as a credit event on the senior reference asset 
would result in a credit event on the subordinated reference asset;  
• for tranched products, the credit protection purchased through credit derivatives must be on a reference obligation with 
the same level of seniority.  
26  Specifically, the credit quality of the counterparty must not be positively correlated with the value of the reference obliga tion 
(ie the credit quality of the counterparty falls when the value of the reference obligation falls and the value of the purchased 
credit derivative increases). In making this determination, there does not need to exist a legal connection between the 
counterparty and the underlying reference entity.

[Page 155]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 151 
 
 
such purchased credit protection may offset written credit derivatives on a pool provided that the credit 
protection purchased through credit derivatives covers the entirety of the subset of the pool on which the 
credit protection has been sold.  
48. Where a bank purchases credit protection through a total return swap (TRS) and records the net 
payments received as net income, but does not record offsetting deterioration in the value of the written 
credit derivative (either through reductions in fair value or by an addition to reserves) in Tier 1 capital, the 
credit protection will not be recognised for the purpose of offsetting the effective notional amounts related 
to written credit derivatives. 
49. Since written credit derivatives are included in the leverage ratio exposure measure at their 
effective notional amounts, and are also subject to amounts for PFE, the leverage ratio exposure measure 
for written credit derivatives may be overstated. Banks may therefore choose to exclude from the netting 
set for the PFE calculation the portion of a written credit derivative which is not offset according to 
paragraph 45 and for which the effective notional amount is included in the leverage ratio exposure 
measure. 
(c)  Securities financing transaction exposures 
50. S FTs27 are included in the leverage ratio exposure measure according to the treatment described 
below. The treatment recognises that secured lending and borrowing in the form of SFTs is an important 
source of leverage, and ensures consistent international implementation by providing a common measure 
for dealing with the main differences in the operative accounting frameworks.  
51. General treatment (bank acting as principal): the sum of the amounts in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) 
below is to be included in the leverage ratio exposure measure: 
(i) Gross SFT assets 28 recognised for accounting purposes (ie with no recognition of accounting 
netting),29 adjusted as follows:  
• excluding from the leverage ratio exposure measure the value of any securities received 
under an SFT, where the bank has recognised the securities as an asset on its balance sheet;30 
and  
• cash payables and cash receivables in SFTs with the same counterparty may be measured 
net if all the following criteria are met: 
(a) transactions have the same explicit final settlement date; in particular, transactions with 
no explicit end date but which can be unwound at any time by either party to the 
transaction are not eligible; 
 
27  SFTs are transactions such as repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, security lending and borrowing, and 
margin lending transactions, where the value of the transactions depends on market valuations and the transactions are often 
subject to margin agreements. 
28  For SFT assets subject to novation and  cleared through QCCPs, “gross SFT assets recognised for accounting purposes” are 
replaced by the final contractual exposure, ie the exposure to the QCCP after the process of novation has been applied, given 
that pre-existing contracts have been replaced by new legal obligations through the novation process. However, banks can 
only net cash receivables and cash payables with a QCCP if the criteria in paragraph 51 (i) are met. Any other netting permitted 
by the QCCP is not permitted for the purposes of the Basel III leverage ratio. 
29  Gross SFT assets recognised for accounting purposes must not recognise any accounting netting of cash payables against cash 
receivables (eg as currently permitted under the IFRS and US GAAP accounting frameworks). This regulatory treatment has the 
benefit of avoiding inconsistencies from netting which may arise across different accounting regimes.  
30  This may apply, for example, under US GAAP, where securities received under an SFT may be recognised as assets if the recipient 
has the right to rehypothecate but has not done so.

[Page 156]
152 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(b) the right to set off the amount owed to the counterparty with the amount owed by the 
counterparty is legally enforceable both currently in the normal course of business and 
in the event of the counterparty’s (i) default; (ii) insolvency; or (iii) bankruptcy; and 
(c) the counterparties intend to settle net, settle simultaneously, or the transactio ns are 
subject to a settlement mechanism that results in the functional equivalent of net 
settlement – that is, the cash flows of the transactions are equivalent, in effect, to a single 
net amount on the settlement date. To achieve such equivalence, both transactions are 
settled through the same settlement system and the settlement arrangements are 
supported by cash and/or intraday credit facilities intended to ensure that settlement of 
both transactions will occur by the end of the business day  and any issues arising from 
the securities legs of the SFTs do not interfere with the completion of the net settlement 
of the cash receivables and payables.  In particular, this latter condition means that the 
failure of any single securities transaction in the settle ment mechanism may delay 
settlement of only the matching cash leg or create an obligation to the settlement 
mechanism, supported by an associated credit facility. If there is a failure of the securities 
leg of a transaction in such a mechanism at the end of the window for settlement in the 
settlement mechanism, then this transaction and its matching cash leg must be split out 
from the netting set and treated gross.31 
(ii) A measure of CCR calculated as the current exposure without an add -on for PFE, calculated as 
follows: 
• Where a qualifying MNA32 is in place, the current exposure (E*) is the greater of zero and the 
total fair value of securities and cash lent to a counterparty for all transactions included in 
the qualifying MNA (∑ Ei), less the total fa ir value of cash and securities received from the 
counterparty for those transactions (∑Ci). This is illustrated in the following formula: 
E* = max {0, [∑Ei – ∑Ci]}  
• Where no qualifying MNA is in place, the current exposure for transactions with a 
counterparty must be calculated on a transaction -by-transaction basis – that is, each 
transaction i is treated as its own netting set, as shown in the following formula: 
Ei* = max {0, [Ei – Ci]} 
Ei* may be set to zero if (i) Ei is the cash lent to a counterparty, (ii) this transaction is treated as its 
own netting set and (iii) the associated cash receivable is not eligible for the netting treatment in 
paragraph 51 (i). 
For the purposes of this subparagraph, the term “counterparty” includes not only the 
counterparty of the bilateral repo transactions but also triparty repo agents that receive collateral 
in deposit and manage the collateral in the case of triparty repo transactions. Therefore, securities 
deposited at triparty repo agents are included in “tota l value of securities and cash lent to a 
counterparty” (E) up to the amount effectively lent to the counterparty in a repo transaction. 
However, excess collateral that has been deposited at triparty agents but that has not been lent 
out may be excluded. 
 
31  Specifically, the criteria in paragraph 51 (i) (c) above are not intended to preclude a DVP settlement mechanism or other type 
of settlement mechanism, provided that the settlement mechanism meets the functional requirements set out in paragraph 51 
(i) (c). For example, a settlement mechanism may meet these functional requirements if any failed transactions (ie the securities 
that failed to transfer and the related cash receivable or payable) can be re-entered in the settlement mechanism until they are 
settled. 
32 A “qualifying” MNA is one that meets the requirements under paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Annex.

[Page 157]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 153 
 
 
52. Sale accounting transactions : leverage may remain with the lender of the security in an SFT 
whether or not sale accounting is achieved under the operative accounting framework. As such, where 
sale accounting is achieved for an SFT under the bank’s operat ive accounting framework, the bank must 
reverse all sales-related accounting entries, and then calculate its exposure as if the SFT had been treated 
as a financing transaction under the operative accounting framework (ie the bank must include the sum 
of amounts in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of paragraph 51 for such an SFT) for the purpose of determining 
its leverage ratio exposure measure. 
53. Bank acting as agent : a bank acting as agent in an SFT generally provides an indemnity or 
guarantee to only one of the two parties involved, and only for the difference between the value of the 
security or cash its customer has lent and the value of collateral the borrower has provided. In this situation, 
the bank is exposed to the counterparty of its customer for the difference in values rather than to the full 
exposure to the underlying security or cash of the transaction (as is the case where the bank is one of the 
principals in the transaction).  
54. Where a bank acting as agent in an SFT provides an indemnity or guarantee to a customer or 
counterparty for any difference between the value of the security or cash the customer has lent and the 
value of collateral the borrower  has provided and the bank does not own or control the underlying cash 
or security resource, then the bank will be required to calculate its leverage ratio exposure measure by 
applying only subparagraph (ii) of paragraph 51.33 
55. A bank acting as agent in an SFT and providing an indemnity or guarantee to a customer or 
counterparty will be considered eligible for the exceptional treatment set out in paragraph 54 only if the 
bank’s exposure to the transaction is limited to the guaranteed difference between the value of the security 
or cash its customer has lent and the value of the collateral the borrower has provided. In situations where 
the bank is further economically exposed (ie beyond the guarantee for the difference) to the underlying 
security or cash in  the transaction, 34 a further exposure equal to the full amount of the security or cash 
must be included in the leverage ratio exposure measure.  
56. Where a bank acting as agent provides an indemnity or guarantee to both parties involved in an 
SFT (ie securities lender and securities borrower), the bank will be required to calculate its leverage ratio 
exposure measure in accordance with paragraphs 53 to 55 separately for each party involved in the 
transaction. 
(d)  Off-balance sheet (OBS) items 
57. This sec tion explains the treatment of OBS items for inclusion in the leverage ratio exposure 
measure. These treatments reflect those defined in the standardised approach for credit risk  and the 
standard Revisions to the securitisation framework , as well as treatm ents unique to the leverage ratio 
framework. OBS items include commitments (including liquidity facilities), whether or not unconditionally 
cancellable, direct credit substitutes, acceptances, standby letters of credit and trade letters of credit. If the 
OBS item is treated as a derivative exposure per the bank’s relevant accounting standard, then the item 
must be measured as a derivative exposure for the purpose of the leverage ratio exposure measure. In this 
case, the bank does not need to apply the OBS item treatment to the exposure. 
 
33  Where, in addition to the conditions in paragraphs 53 to 55, a bank acting as an agent in an SFT does not provide an indemnity 
or guarantee to any of the involved parties, the bank is not exposed to the SFT and therefore need not recognise those SFTs in 
its leverage ratio exposure measure. 
34  For example, due to the bank managing collateral received in the bank’s name or on its own account rather than on the 
customer’s or borrower’s account (eg by on -lending or managing unsegregated collateral, cash or securities). However, this 
does not apply to client omnibus accounts that are used by agent lenders to hold and manage client collateral provided that 
client collateral is segregated from the bank’s proprietary assets and the bank calculates the exposure on a client -by-client 
basis.

[Page 158]
154 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
58. In the risk-based capital framework, OBS items are converted under the standardised approach 
for credit risk into credit exposure equivalents through the use of credit conversion factors (CCFs). For the 
purpose of determining the exposure amount of OBS items for the leverage ratio, the CCFs set out in the 
Annex must be applied to the notional amount. 
59. In addition, specific and general provisions set aside against OBS exposures that have decreased 
Tier 1 capital may be d educted from the credit exposure equivalent amount of those exposures (ie the 
exposure amount after the application of the relevant CCF). However, the resulting total off-balance sheet 
equivalent amount for OBS exposures cannot be less than zero.

[Page 159]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 155 
 
 
Annex: Leverage ratio  
This annex includes the relevant provisions applicable for the purpose of calculating the leverage ratio.  
Derivative exposures 
1.  The calculation of derivative exposures for the leverage ratio exposure measure is based on a 
modified versio n of the standard set out in Annex 4 of the Basel II framework as amended by The 
Standardised Approach for measuring counterparty credit risk exposures (hereafter “SA-CCR framework”).35 
Calculation of replacement cost 
2.  The replacement cost of a transaction or netting set is measured as follows: 
{ }RC max V CVM CVM ,0rp= −+  
where (i) V is the market value of the individual derivative transaction or of the derivative 
transactions in a netting set; (ii) CVMr is the cash variation margin received that meets the conditions set 
out in paragraph 39 and for which the amount has not already reduced the market value of the derivative 
transaction V under the bank’s operative accounting standard; and (iii) CVMp is the cash variation margin 
provided by the bank and that meets the same conditions.  
Calculation of potential future exposure 
3.  The potential future exposure (PFE) for derivative exposures must be calculated in accordance 
with paragraphs 146 to 187 of Annex 4 of the SA-CCR framework. Mathematically: 
aggregatePFE multiplier AddOn= ⋅   
For the purposes of the leverage ratio framework, the multiplier is fixed at one. Moreover, when 
calculating the add-on component, for all margined transactions the maturity factor set out in paragraph 
164 of Annex 4 of the SA-CCR framework may be used. Further, as written options create an exposure to 
the underlying, they must be included in the leverage ratio exposure measure by applying the treatment 
described in this Annex, even if certain written options are permitted t he zero exposure at default (EAD) 
treatment allowed in the risk-based framework. 
Bilateral netting 
4.  For the purposes of the leverage ratio exposure measure, the following will apply: 
(a) Banks may net transactions subject to novation under which any obligation between a bank and 
its counterparty to deliver a given currency on a given value date is automatically amalgamated 
with all other obligations for the same currency and value date, legally substituting one single 
amount for the previous gross obligations.  
 
35  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, The standardised approach for measuring counterparty credit risk exposures , March 
2014 (rev. April 2014), www.bis.org/publ/bcbs279.pdf.

[Page 160]
156 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
(b) Banks may also net transactions subject to any legally valid form of bilateral netting not covered 
in (a), including other forms of novation.  
(c) In both cases (a) and (b), a bank will need to satisfy its national supervisors that it has:  
(i) a netting contract or agreement with the counterparty that creates a single legal obligation, 
covering all included transactions, such that the bank would have either a claim to receive or 
obligation to pay only the net sum of the positive and negative mark -to-market values of 
included individual transactions in the event that a counterparty fails to perform due to any 
of the following: default, bankruptcy, liquidation or similar circumstances; 
(ii) written and reasoned legal opinions that, in the event of a legal challenge, the relevant courts 
and administrative authorities would find the bank’s exposure to be such a net amount 
under:  
- the law of the jurisdiction in which the counterparty is chartered and, if the foreign 
branch of a counterparty is involved, then also under the law of jurisdiction in which the 
branch is located; 
- the law that governs the individual transactions; and 
- the law that governs any contract or agreement necessary to effect the netting.  
The national supervisor, after consultation when necessary with other relevant supervisors, 
must be satisfied that the netting is enforceable under the laws of each of the relevant 
jurisdictions;36 and 
(iii) procedures in place to ensure that the legal characteristics of netting arrangements are kept 
under review in the light of possible changes in relevant law.  
5. Contracts containing walkaway clauses will not be eligible for netting for the purpose of 
calculating the leverage ratio exposure measure pursuant to this framework. A walkaway clause is a 
provision that permits a non-defaulting counterparty to make only limited payments, or no payment at 
all, to the estate of a defaulter, even if the defaulter is a net creditor. 
Securities financing transaction exposures 
6. Qualifying master netting agreement : the effects of bilateral netting agreements 37 for covering 
SFTs will be recognised on a counterparty-by-counterparty basis if the agreements are legally enforceable 
in each relevant jurisdiction upon the occurrence of an event of default and regardless of whether the 
counterparty is insolvent or bankrupt. In addition, netting agreements must: 
(a) provide the non-defaulting party with the right to terminate and close out in a timely manner all 
transactions under the agreement upon an event of default, including in the event of insolv ency 
or bankruptcy of the counterparty; 
(b) provide for the netting of gains and losses on transactions (including the value of any collateral) 
terminated and closed out under it so that a single net amount is owed by one party to the other; 
(c) allow for the prompt liquidation or setoff of collateral upon the event of default; and  
 
36  Thus, if any of these supervisors are dissatisfied about enforceability under its laws, the netting contract or agreement will not 
meet the condition and neither counterparty could obtain supervisory benefit. 
37  The provisions related to qualifying master netting  agreements for SFTs are intended for the calculation of the counterparty 
credit risk measure of SFTs as set out in paragraph 51 (ii) only.

[Page 161]
Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 157 
 
 
(d) be, together with the rights arising from provisions required in (a) and (c) above, legally 
enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction upon the occurrence of an event of default regardless of 
the counterparty’s insolvency or bankruptcy.  
7. Netting across positions held in the banking book and trading book will only be recognised when 
the netted transactions fulfil the following conditions: 
(a) all transactions are marked to market daily; and 
(b) the collateral instruments used in the transactions are recognised as eligible financial collateral 
in the banking book.  
Off-balance sheet (OBS) items 
8. For the purposes of the leverage ratio, OBS items will be converted into credit exposures by 
multiplying the committed but undrawn amount by a credit conversion factor (CCF). For these purposes, 
commitment means any contractual arrangement that has been offered by the bank and accepted by the 
client to extend credit, purchase assets or issue credit substi tutes. It includes any such arrangement that 
can be unconditionally cancelled by the bank at any time without prior notice to the obligor. 38 It also 
includes any such arrangement that can be cancelled by the bank if the obligor fails to meet conditions 
set out in the facility document, including conditions that must be met by the obligor prior to any initial 
or subsequent drawdown arrangement. 
9. A 100% CCF will be applied to the following items:  
• Direct credit substitutes, eg general guarantees of indebtedness (including standby letters of 
credit serving as financial guarantees for loans and securities) and acceptances (including 
endorsements with the character of acceptances).  
• Forward asset purchases, forward forward deposits and partly paid shares and securities, which 
represent commitments with certain drawdown.  
• The exposure amount associated with unsettled financial asset purchases (ie the commitment to 
pay) where regular-way unsettled trades are accounted for at settlement date. Banks may offset 
commitments to pay for unsettled purchases and cash to be received for unsettled sales provided 
that the following conditions are met: (i) the financial assets bought and sold that are associated 
with cash payables and receivables are fair valued through income and included in the bank’s 
regulatory trading book as specified by paragraphs 8 to 20 of the market risk framework; and (ii) 
the transactions of the financial assets are settled on a DVP basis. 
 
38  At national discretion, a jurisdiction may exempt certain arrangements from the definition of commitments provided that the 
following conditions are met: (i) the bank receives no fees or commissions to establish or maintain the arrangements; (ii) th e 
client is required to apply to the bank for the initial and each subsequent drawdown; (iii) the bank has full authority, regardless 
of the fulfilment by the client of the conditions set out in the facility documentation, over the execution of each drawdown;  
and (iv) the bank’s decision on the execution of each drawdown is only made after assessing the creditworthiness of the client 
immediately prior to drawdown. Exempted arrangements that met the above criteria are confined to certain arrangements for 
corporates and SMEs, where counterparties are closely monitored on an ongoing basis.

[Page 162]
158 Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms 
 
 
• Off-balance sheet items that are credit substitutes not explicitly included in any other category.  
10. A 50% CCF will be applied to note issuance facilities (NIFs) and revolving underwriting facilit ies 
(RUFs) regardless of the maturity of the underlying facility.  
11. A 50% CCF will be applied to certain transaction-related contingent items (eg performance bonds, 
bid bonds, warranties and standby letters of credit related to particular transactions).   
12. A 40% CCF will be applied to commitments, regardless of the maturity of the underlying facility, 
unless they qualify for a lower CCF.  
13. A 20% CCF will be applied to both the issuing and confirming banks of short -term 39  self-
liquidating trade letter s of credit arising from the movement of goods (eg documentary credits 
collateralised by the underlying shipment).  
14. A 10% CCF will be applied to commitments that are unconditionally cancellable at any time by 
the bank without prior notice, or that effe ctively provide for automatic cancellation due to deterioration 
in a borrower’s creditworthiness. National supervisors should evaluate various factors in the jurisdiction, 
which may constrain banks’ ability to cancel the commitment in practice, and consider applying a higher 
CCF to certain commitments as appropriate.  
15. Where there is an undertaking to provide a commitment on an off-balance sheet item, banks are 
to apply the lower of the two applicable CCFs.40 
16. OBS securitisation exposures must be treat ed as per the second bullet of paragraph 20 of the 
Basel III securitisation framework.41 
 
39  That is, with a maturity below one year. For further details see Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Treatment of trade 
finance under the Basel capital framework, October 2011, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs205.pdf. 
40  For example, if a bank has a commitment to open short-term self-liquidating trade letters of credit arising from the movement 
of goods, a 20% CCF will be applied (instead of a 40% CCF); and if a bank has an unconditionally cancellable commitment 
described in paragraph 59 to issue direct credit substitutes, a 10% CCF will be applied (instead of a 100% CCF). 
41  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Revisions to the securitisation framework , December 2014 (rev July 2016), 
www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d303.pdf.
