[Page 1]
Page 1 of 110 
 
 
 
Ref: IRDA/HLT/REG/CIR/150/07/2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Guidelines on Product Filing in Health Insurance Business  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated 29th July 2016

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 110 
 
 
 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
3rd Floor, Parishrama Bhavan, Basheerbagh, 
HYDERABAD 500 004 
 
Ref: IRDA/HLT/REG/CIR/150/07/2016      29th July, 2016 
 
 
To 
 
The Chairman-Cum- Managing Directors/Chief Executive officers of 
Life Insurance Companies, General Insurance Companies & Health Insurance 
Companies 
 
Madam/Sir, 
 
Guidelines on Product Filing in Health Insurance Business  
 
The Health Insurance Regulations, 2013 are now replaced by IRDAI (Health 
Insurance) Regulations, 2016 which  were notified on 18th July, 2016 .  In terms of 
various provisions of the said Regulations, the Authority hereby issues these 
Guidelines on product filing procedures for products relating to Health Insurance 
Business for compliance by all Insurers and TPAs, as may be applicable.   
 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
(Yegnapriya Bharath) 
Joint Director - Health

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 110 
 
 
INDEX 
 
Sl 
No 
Item Page No 
1.  Preliminary: Introduction; Objective; Applicability etc 4-6 
2. General Provisions 7-15 
3. File and Use Procedure 16-22 
4. Use and File Procedure 23-26 
5. Additional guidelines on Group Insurance 27-28 
6. Guidelines on Withdrawal of Health Insurance 
Products 
29-30 
7. Guidelines on Wellness Features/Benefits 31-32 
8. Schedule – 1  - Definitions 33 
9. Schedule – 2 - Customer Information Sheet 34-37 
10. Forms and Formats for Application and related 
documents for File and Use Procedure and Use and 
File procedure (Annexures 1 to 7) 
38-107 
11. Furnishing of Information (Annexures 8 to 10) 108-110

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 110 
 
CHAPTER I: PRELIMINARY 
1. Introduction: 
The File and Use Guidelines and other procedure for product clearance in respect of 
health insurance business have evolved over time and those currently in vogue were 
enunciated in the Health Insurance Regulations 2013 as well as in the Circular on 
Standardization Guidelin es for Health Insurance bearing Ref 
IRDA/HLT/CIR/036/02/2013 dated 20 th February, 2013  and amendments thereof . 
The Health Insurance Regulations, 2013 are now replaced by IRDAI (Health 
Insurance) Regulations, 2016 (hereafter referred as HIR, 2016)  which were notified 
on 18th July, 2016 .  In terms of various provisions of the said Regulations, the 
Authority has to specify certain Guidelines  for compliance by all Insurers and TPAs, 
as may be applicable.   
The objective of this circular is to specify the Product Filing Guidelines which  consist 
of File and Use and Use and File Procedure, Guidelines on Withdrawal  of Products, 
Group Insurance  and wellness features /benefits and also set out other related 
regulatory requirements that every Insurer shall comply with.   
2. Applicability:   
Unless otherwise specified in the provisions of this Circular, this circular is applicable 
to all Life, General and Health insurers carrying on health insurance business in  
India, registered in accordance with Section 3 of the Insurance Act 1938, (herein 
after referred as Insurers).  
3. Legal and other provisions:  
3.1 This circular is issued under the provisions of Section 34 (1) of Insurance Act, 
1938 and under the powers vested in Regulation 2 (i) (o) of IRDAI (Health 
Insurance) Regulations, 2016.  
3.2 The periodicity of the data or information to be furnished to the Authority, if 
any, shall be as mentioned under the respective Chapters in this circular.  
3.3 Norms to be f ollowed by all Insurers while filing Health Insurance products 
under File and Use application are prescribed in Chapter III of this circular.  
3.4 Norms to be followed by General Insurers and Health Insurers while 
launching Group  Insurance Products under Use and File Procedure  are prescribed 
in Chapter IV of this Circular. (This is not applicable to Life Insurers.) 
3.5 Certain additional Guidelines on Group Insurance Policies are specified in 
Chapter V of this Circular.

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 110 
 
3.6 Norms to be followed while with drawing products are specified in Chapter VI 
of this Circular. These are not applicable to Life Insurers.  
3.7 Guidelines to be adhered to by all Insurers while offering wellness features as 
part of Health Insurance Policies are specified in Chapter VII of this Circular.  
3.8 Formats relating to File and Use, Use and File , Withdrawals etc. are attached as 
Annexure 1 – 7 of this Circular.  
3.9 Returns to be filed by all Insurers specific to Government Schemes, Group 
Insurance and Pilot Product s are prescribed under Annexure – 8 to 1 0  of this 
Circular.  
4. Effective Date:  
The provisions of this circular shall be applicable with immediate effect or as 
specified in the respective provisions hereunder. The norms specified in these 
guidelines shall be applicable to all Individual  products filed with the Authority under 
File and  Use Procedure subsequent to the notification of these guidelines and all 
products launched under Use and File procedure in respect of Group Insurance 
Policies, including Government Schemes.  
5. Abatement of all previous circulars and guidelines: 
This circular is to be read in conjunction with the relevant provisions of the H ealth 
Insurance Regulations , 2016 and supercede the previous Circulars and Guidelines 
relating to File and Use procedure and other applicable guidelines for clearance of 
products    in respect of Health Insurance Business (as defined in the Act) offered by 
Life Insurers, General insurers and Health insurers. 
6. Definitions: 
a) The words or expressions used herein and defined in the Insurance Act, 1938 
and Amendments thereon, the Insuran ce Regulatory and Development 
Authority Act, 1999 and the Regulations notified thereunder shall have the 
same meaning as assigned to them in those Acts.  
b) For the purpose of these guidelines certain terms shall have the meaning 
assigned as per glossary in Schedule -I unless otherwise specified or the 
context otherwise requires. 
7. Filing Process:  
While insurers shall follow the procedure and documentation  specified herein  for 
‘File and Use’ and ‘Use and File’ and use the Application Formats specified in these 
Guidelines, they shall ensure that internal verification is independently carried out by

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 110 
 
their compliance Department and file the certifications prescribed under these 
Guidelines with IRDAI.

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 110 
 
CHAPTER II: GENERAL PROVISIONS 
1. Board approved Underwriting Policy: 
 
a) Every Insurer must file its Board approved Underwriting Policy for Health 
Insurance Business giving details for Health, Personal Accident and Travel, 
as may be applicable. 
b) The Insurer shall ensure that the Underwriting Policy reflects its underwriting 
philosophy.  
 
c) The Insurer shall also ensure that product design, rating, terms and 
conditions of cover and underwriting are at all times consistent with the Board 
approved underwriting policy. 
 
d) Any changes in the underwriting policy shall be approved by the Board 
recording the reasons for the change and the same shall be submitted to 
IRDAI within 30 days from the date of such approval. 
 
e) It must be ensured that the i mpact of such changes on the existing products 
is taken care of. If such impact warrants a change in the existing products, the 
insurer may decide to withdraw or file such products duly modified. 
Explanation: In respect of  General Insurers and  Life Insurers, where the 
Underwriting Policy approved by the Board  is in respect of all lines of 
business, it shall consider the above factors while detailing the underwriting 
policy for Health Insurance Business.  
 
2. Role of Product Management Committee (P MC) (Not applicable to Life 
Insurers): 
Please refer to IRDAI ‘Guidelines on Product Filing Procedures for General 
Insurance Products ’ ref. no.  IRDAI/NL/GDL/F&U/030/02/2016 dated                  
18th February, 2016 . In terms of the same, every general insurer (other than 
stand-alone health insurers) shall have to set up the Product Management 
Committee (PMC) as stipulated and carry on the role prescribed. In respect of 
products falling under Health Insurance Busines s, the PMC shall also assume 
the additional role as stipulated hereunder. As far as stand -alone health insurers 
are concerned, they shall also set up a Product Management Committee (PMC) 
in accordance with the norms specified in the Circular dated 18th February, 2016 
referred above.  
In addition to  the functions specified in the above referred Circular dated            
18th February, 2016, the PMC shall carry out the following functions in so far as 
Health Insurance Business is concerned: 
i. The Committee shall put in place a Product Management Policy (in line with 
the Underwriting Policy) for Health Insurance Business . The within referred 
policy shall, inter alia , include aspects of reviewing products to avoid

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 110 
 
duplication or having  multiple number of similar products; annual plans at the 
beginning of each financial year for filing of new products and modification of 
existing products; launching of products cleared under the File and Use 
procedure/ Use and File procedure as stipulated in these  Guidelines; 
designing and filing of pilot products, if any and any other matter relating to 
product design and performance.  
ii. PMC shall carry out a due diligence process and record its concurrence/sign 
off on various product related risks for all product filings under File and Use, 
including Pilot products, if any, before any application for an insurance 
product is sent to IRDAI for approval under the File and Use procedure.  
iii. As far as products under the Use and File category are concerned, subject to 
the norms specified under these Guidelines, these shall be approved by the 
PMC which shall ensure that the products comply with the various stipulations 
relating to products enunciated in the various applicable provisions of law, 
rules, regulations, guidelines  and other applicable regulatory framework 
including the Use and File guidelines stipulated by IRDAI from time to time. 
iv. The Board of the insurer may, however, delegate the day -to-day 
responsibilities relating to product designing, responding to IRDAI ’s que ries 
etc to any of the Key Persons of the Company in accordance to the provisions 
of Annexure – 4 Guidelines for Corporate Governance for Insurers in India 
Ref No. IRDA/F&A/GDL/CG/100/05/2016 dated 18th May, 2016.  
v. The Committee shall hold its meetings at least once in a Quarter. 
vi. The minutes of the meetings of the PMC shall be maintained for a minimum 
period of five years and the Authority reserves the right to call for the minutes 
of meetings of the PMC at any time. 
 
3. The Proposal Form: 
(I) The following are hereby prescribed in respect of the Proposal Form  used 
for individual health insurance products offered by all Insurers:  
a) Insurers shall ensure that every P roposal Form used for any of their 
health insurance products is filed and approved under these 
guidelines. 
 
b) Every Insurer shall file the proposal form(s) by giving a Unique 
Reference Number to each. Insurers may use the same proposal form 
approved by the Authority under these guidelines for any number of 
products by duly mentioning the Unique Reference Number of the said 
Proposal Form in the relevant File and Use Form.   It would not be 
necessary to file the form each time.  
Explanatory Note:  The Unique Reference Number referred 
herein shall be allotted by the Insurer and it shall be Proposal 
Form specific Unique Reference Number.  
 
c) Where any changes are required to be effected to suit the product or 
underwriting requirements etc., Insurer shall file such specific Proposal

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 110 
 
Form either while filing such product  or separately and the same shall 
be given another Unique Reference Number.  
 
d) Insurers shall maintain a record of the Unique Reference Number 
allotted to each proposal form and the products for which the said 
proposal form is used.  
 
e) Every proposal form used along with the unique reference number and 
the name of the product for which the form is used shall be disclosed in 
the respective websites of the Insurers.  
 
f) There shall be a provision to capture the declarations or confirmation 
by Insurance Agent or the Intermediary explaining the product 
suitability to the prospect as well as the prospect ’s or policyholder ’s 
declaration or confirmation with regard to the understanding of the 
features.  Where the proposer is illiterate  or signs in a language 
different from that of the language of the proposal form, there shall be 
a provision which states that the details are explained to the proposer 
along with  the signature of such person who has explained and the 
thumb impression / signature of the proposer. 
 
g) Where the policies are procured in electronic form, there shall be a 
procedure to elicit and capture the information required to underwrite 
the policy. The information captured under the electronic form shall be 
made available to the customer or the prospect  as per extant 
Regulations or Circulars or Guidelines issued by the Authority,  as 
applicable, in this regard. 
 
h) No Insurer shall, as part of the proposal form, call for or capture any 
personal information relating to the policyho lder that is not relevant for 
considering the proposal for granting insurance sought or servicing of 
claim under such policy.  
 
i) No Insurer shall share any data pertaining to the policyholders  
collected as part of the proposal form with any third party except to any 
Government or statutory authority or as may be directed by the 
Authority or as per any regulatory framework put in place by the 
Authority.  
 
j) The standard declarations in the proposal form shall be: 
 
1. I hereby declare, on my behalf and on behal f of all persons 
proposed to be insured, that the above statements, answers 
and/or particulars given by me are true and complete in all 
respects to the best of my knowledge and that I  am authorised 
to propose on behalf of these other persons.

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 110 
 
2. I understand  that the information provided by me will form the 
basis of the insurance policy, is subject to the Board approved 
underwriting policy of the insur er and that the policy will come 
into force only after full payment of the premium chargeable. 
 
3. I further declare that I will notify in writing any change occurring 
in the occupation or general health of the life to be 
insured/proposer after the proposal has been submitted but 
before communication of the risk acceptance by the company.  
 
4. I declare that I  consent to the company seeking medical 
information from any doctor or hospital who /which at any  time 
has attended on the person to be insured/proposer or from any 
past or present employer  concerning anything which affects the 
physical or mental health of  the person to be insured/proposer  
and seeking information from any insur er to whom  an 
application for insurance on the person to be insured /proposer 
has been made for the purpose of underwriting the proposal 
and/or claim settlement.  
 
5. I authorize the co mpany to share information pertaining to my 
proposal including the medical records  of the insured/proposer  
for the sole purpose of underwriting  the proposal and/or claims 
settlement and with any Governmental and/or Regulatory 
authority.” 
 
(II) Norms for Proposal Forms for Group Health Insurance Products 
offered by General and Health Insurers:   
 
i. Every proposal form used for Group Health Insurance Products 
shall carry a Unique Reference Number allotted by the Insurers. 
ii. The Unique Reference Number allotted shall be mentioned in 
the said proposal forms. 
iii. Insurers shall comply with Clause ( 3) (I) (d), Clause ( 3) (I) (e), 
Clause ( 3) (I) (i) and Clause (2) (I) (j) referred above. Insurers 
shall put in place procedures to collect the information  relating 
to the Gr oup from the Group Organiser or the Master 
Policyholder in the concerned proposal form /form for members 
as may be the case.    
 
(III) The norms specified under this chapter shall be prospectively 
applicable after the date of notification of this circular to all the  
Individual Products filed under File and Use norms and Group 
Insurance Products launched under Use and File.

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 110 
 
(IV) Notwithstanding what is stated in these Guidelines, every proposal 
form shall comply with all other applicable provisions of Rules  and/or 
Regulations. 
 
4. Designing of products:  
 
All Insurers shall put in place procedures to comply with the following norms 
while designing products.  
 
i. Every product shall comply with the provisions of Insurance Act, 1938, IRDAI 
(Health Insurance) Regulations, 2016 and all other applicable regulations and 
guidelines notified by the Authority. The terms and conditions of the contract 
shall also be in compliance with other applicable laws, if any.  
ii. The design shall be based on sound and prudent principles. 
iii.  The endeavour shall be that the product   meet s the broad insurance needs 
of the targeted market segment , the pricing is fair to the customers and the 
product is viable and self-sustainable for the Insurer. 
iv. Pricing shall be based on appropriate and reliable data. The reasonableness 
of the pricing arrived at shall be presented to the PMC by the Appointed 
Actuary with regard to the financial sustainability and viability of the product 
as to the rates, loadings, guarantees a nd discounts, and the accuracy of the 
assumptions underlying the pricing model adopted. 
v. While  designing the product, following shall be documented and submitted to 
the PMC: 
a. complete pricing details including the methodology adopted to  arrive 
at the premium, together with the data sources utilized; 
b. assumptions made shall include the expected claim frequency and 
claim severities across age bands, expected expenses, lapse rates 
etc;  
c. specific loadings, if any, allowed; 
d. the profit margin at various model poin ts or the expected loss ratios 
and the expected combined ratios a t various model points across the 
entire portfolio; 
e.  the underwriting capacity required for the product and the actual 
capacity available with the insurer;  
f. the retention capacity to manage the business  
g. internal capacity building measures, if any, required to offer the 
proposed product  
(i) and any other relevant metric  for the product proposed.  
vi. Applications for revision of premium rates shall also be submitted to PMC 
before filing with the  Authority for approval under the Product Filing 
Guidelines and inter alia, shall encompass 
a. the justification for the revision in price;

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 110 
 
b. the claims experience of the immediate three preceding years 
compared to the expected experience duly explaining the variations, 
and the experience of any similar product. 
c. the expected claims experience, the underlying assumptions of the 
proposed pricing along with an analysis of  how the proposed pricing 
would address the adversities experienced sustainably.  
vii. Insurers m ay endeavour to recognise, for the purpose of rating , early entry 
into health insurance policies  and also recognise early entry at the time of 
migration and porting. 
viii. The policy wordings must be simple using plain language that is easily 
understandable to the targeted market segment. All the sections of the policy 
must be placed logically and sequentially. There shall be consistency in the 
presentation of the terms and conditions in terms of language and facts, 
across all the sections of the policy contract.  
ix. Insurers shall endeavour to use the same terminology across all their 
products in the description of the terms and conditions or the benefits. In 
order that a policy contract is policyholder friendly and easily understandable , 
Insurers shall endeavour to avoid repetition of the te rms and conditions at 
various sections, and shall provide cross reference wherever necessary. 
Insurers shall endeavour to classify various terms and conditions of the policy 
contract into various Sections and shall ensure that all the clauses related to 
that specific section are exclusively mentioned in that relevant section only.      
x. Standard definitions and nomenclatures wherever applicable shall be  
mentioned as prescribed by IRDAI vide circular                                              
ref: IRDA/HLT/REG/CIR/146/07/2016 dated 29th July 2016 as amended from 
time to time.   
xi. The font size of the policy wordings should at least be equivalent to size 7 of 
Times New Roman. 
 
 
xii. Norms on Nomenclature of  Products:  
 
a. The name given to a product shall  be one that is appropriate for the 
coverage being offered. 
b. No Insurer shall name a product with the same name that is already 
marketed by any other Insurer.  If at any point of time it is observed 
that same name is used b y more than one insurer , the Authority 
reserves the right to direct the Insurer /s to change the name of the 
subsequent product/s filed or launched as the case may be. 
c. Insurers shall use the same name as filed with the Authority whether it 
is under the File and Use or Use and File procedure.. 
d. Insurers may, however, forward an application for changing the name 
of a product, if  they so desire.  On examining such request /s the 
Authority may consider the same, in which case, such revised name 
shall be used prospectively only.

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 110 
 
e. The names of the products must not reflect terms or phrases that 
exaggerate the underlying benefits or coverage of any health 
insurance policy or impl y guarantees or guaranteed claim payments .  
Names of Health Care providers shall not b e reflected as part of the 
product name.    
 
xiii. Norms on Product Disclosures: 
a. All products that are offered shall be disclosed in the websites of the 
respective insurers along with the approved  name, UIN , premium 
rates charged (exclusive of taxes)  for all ages, along with   the date of 
launching of the product. Insurers shall separately mention the extant 
taxes applicable.  
b. Every Insurer shall disclose the terms and conditions of the policies 
and their prospectus as filed with the Authority in their website. 
 
xiv. Norms for Prevention of Frauds: 
a. In addition to complying with the extant regulatory framework put in 
place by the Authority for prevention of frauds, all Insurers , while 
designing products shall also examine, identify and put in place 
necessary and relevant systems to prevent and detect potential frauds. 
 
5. The Prospectus: 
 
In addition to the disclosure requirements stipulated in various provisions 
of the Health Insurance regulations  2016, IRDA (Insurance Advertisement 
and Disclosure) Regulations, 2000 , Rules  and Guidelines / Circulars as 
amended from time to time, the Prospectus  shall mandatorily contain all  
information regarding:  
i. Disclosures about the terms and conditions of policy renewal including 
the possibility of modification of the policy in future  
ii. Coverage and premium applicable as per the age progression  
iii. Whether renewal premium would be guaranteed or subject to revision; 
iv. Disclosure of the maximum age up to when the renewal would b e 
available, if product is offered to specified age groups.  
v. Options available to migrate to other policies in case  of closure or 
withdrawal of products. 
vi. Any changes in the scope of the cover after certain duration of the 
policy or after a certain age - such as including but not limited to 
coverage for pre-existing diseases; 
vii. Factors, on the  basis of which premium , if at all, could be loaded (or 
discounts offered, if any, could be withdrawn) by the insurer and also  
the extent to which it could be done; 
viii. Procedure and terms and conditions , if any,  for enhancing the Sum 
Insured or scope of cover 
ix. Exclusions and Conditions including Cancellation Condition/s.

[Page 14]
Page 14 of 110 
 
 
6. Customer Information Sheet: 
 
Every product shall be accompanied by a Customer Information Sheet as per 
the format prescribed in Schedule – II of these Guidelines. 
 
7. Responsibility for compliance: 
 
i) For every product filed with the Authority, the Insurer shall furnish a detailed 
self-check list cum certification in the prescribed format ( FORM – IRDAI-HLT-
CLC) (Annexure – 7) duly certified by the Chief Compliance Officer  who shall 
ensure that the terms and conditions of the product are compliant with the 
provisions of the Regulations and Guidelines issued by IRDAI from time to 
time.  
ii) The onus of ensuring corr ectness of the details in various documents (policy, 
prospectus, proposal form etc) vis-à-vis another lies with the Insurer.   
 
8. IRDAI’s right to examine or issue directions: 
If, at any time , it appears to IRDAI that a product being sold by an insurer is not 
appropriate for any reason or does not carry rates, terms and conditions that are 
fair between the parties or the documents used with the product are in any way 
questionable, notwithstandi ng the fact that IRDAI may have had no subsisting 
queries in respect of that product when it was originally filed, it may express its 
concerns and call upon the insurer to answer the concerns of IRDAI with regard 
to that product, within the time frame specified by IRDAI. If the insurer is not able 
to satisfy IRDAI in the matter, IRDAI may require the insurer to suspend the sale 
of that product until it is modified in a manner acceptable to IRDAI or withdraw 
the product from the market. Where a product is wi thdrawn from the market 
under this provision, the insurer shall not use the same brand name for any other 
product. 
9. Unique Identification Number:  
(i) Every product launched either under File and Use or under Use and File shall 
have a subsisting Product UIN  issued by the Authority. The UIN of the product 
shall be disclosed in all the product documents like prospectus, policy wordings 
and CIS. UIN issued by the Authority shall not be altered or modified by the 
Insurer. At any given point of time, one product shall carry one UIN. (ii) Where 
any modification is effected such modified product shall carry the modified UIN 
issued by the Authority.  
10.  Product Performance Review:  
The PMC shall assess the performance of every product at least after the expiry 
of three financial years from the date of launch. The review of the product 
performance shall, inter alia, cover; 
a. The viability of the product.

[Page 15]
Page 15 of 110 
 
 
b. The assumptions made at the time of launching the product vis -à-vis 
the actual experience in terms of business volume , Incurred Claims 
Ratio, Combined Loss Ratio and others.

[Page 16]
Page 16 of 110 
 
CHAPTER III :: FILE AND USE PROCEDURE 
This procedure is applicable to new or modification of Individual Products, Riders or 
Add-ons of Health Insurance Business offered to Individuals. The procedure is also 
applicable to  Pilot Health Insurance Products (both Individual and Group) , Health 
plus Life Combi -Products (both Individual and Group) , Non-Life Insurance Packag e 
and Health Package Products. The application under File and Use shall be made in 
the respective forms specified in these guidelines. In respect of the products filed 
under this category, the Authority may seek additional information . Insurers shall not 
commence selling the product until the Authority confirms in writing  of having no 
subsisting queries on the product filed.  
 
A. New Health Products or Add -Ons or Riders (Applicable to Life, General 
and Health Insurers): 
 
An insurer who wishes to in troduce a new Individual product or Rider or Add-
on or modify an existing Individual product  or Rider or Add-on shall file an 
application for such product with IRDAI as per procedure set out herein: 
 
1. All applications filed under F& U shall be approved by the Product 
Management Committee of the General or Health Insurer prior to the filing 
with the Authority. 
2. Insurers shall use only the specified Form - IRDAI – FNU-HIP (Annexure – 1) 
for filing of products as well as riders or add-ons.  
3. Insurers shall file the necessary certificates as prescribed in the File and Use 
application under these Guidelines without deviating from the prescribed 
formats. 
4. The forms/certificates should be complete d in all respects. Where a question 
is not applicable  for a product, the remark ‘Not applicable ’ is to be put. No 
column is to be left blank. All the granular details of Waiting Periods, 
Exclusions, Deductibles, Co -Pay, Sub-limits etc shall be disclosed cle arly in 
the F&U Application without omission.  
Note: It is clarified that mere mentioning of the applicability of the above 
referred conditions in the product without specifying the granular details of 
minimum and maximum amounts etc. may render the applic ation not 
eligible to be considered.   
5. If an insurer wishes to offer riders or add -ons along with a basic  product, it  
must furnish the information in respect of the respective riders or add -ons 
separately using the File and Use Application specified  (Form - IRDAI – FNU-
HIP) in t his circular.  It shall also file   the financial projections along with

[Page 17]
Page 17 of 110 
 
sensitivity analysis for each rider or add -on benefit. It is further clarified that it 
is not necessary to file the rider details more than once when the same rider 
or add-on is proposed to be offered with any new base product .  However, it 
would be necessary to furnish the section pertaining to financial projections  
and sensitivity analysis. 
6. All requisite items in the Forms must be furnished with the relevant details.  
7. Forms along with the necessary enclosures -(i). Specimen Policy wordings 
along with policy schedule (ii). Specimen Proposal form ( as stipulated in 
these Guidelines) (iii).  Specimen Prospectus or Sales Literature and (iv). 
Technical Notes  (applicable for General Insurers and Health Insurers) , etc 
shall be furnished in one go. 
8. Insurers shall not alter the contents of the products without following due 
process of modification specified under these Guidelines.   
9. If an Insurer wishes to modify an existing approved product, the Company is 
required to comply with ‘File & Use procedure afresh  as a modification , by 
duly filing the Application as specified under Clause (C) of this chapter.  
10. If an insurer does not launch the product or modified product within a period 
of six months from the date of approval, the Insurer will be required to seek 
the approval of the Authority for launching the product or the modification, as 
the case may be.  While seeking the approval , Insurers shall specify (a) the 
reasons for not launching (b) if there are any changes that may have an 
impact on the assumptions made at the time of the filing the product or the 
modification (c) if there is any other impact such as owing to market dynamics 
etc   
11. If an insurer does not launch the product or the modified product within a 
period of twelve months from the date of approval, Insurer will be required to 
comply with File & Use procedure afresh.  
12. The Appointed Actuary shall  initial / sign  on all pages of the File and Use 
application. A ll the correspondence on products with the Authority shall be 
made only either by the Appointed Actuary or any of the Key Persons of the 
Company in accordance with the provisions of Annexure – 4 Guidelines for 
Corporate Governance for Insurers in India Ref No. 
IRDA/F&A/GDL/CG/100/05/2016 dated 18th May, 2016.  
13. Insurer shall furnish the revised documents specifically highlighting the 
changes, if any , made consequent to the queries raised by the Authority. 
Each page of the document shall carry the name of the document, date of 
filing, change or modification effected  indicating the date of such change  and 
page number and shall be in legible font size not below 7 Times N ew Roman. 
Where any other changes or modifications are carried out (other than those 
on which clarifications are sought) the same shall be duly brought to the 
notice of the Authority.

[Page 18]
Page 18 of 110 
 
Provided that, if such changes or modifications are materially signific ant, the 
Authority reserves the right to direct the Insurer to file the ‘File and Use’ Application 
afresh.  
14. The insurer shall also furnish the details of the software , if any  used, in the 
matter of designing and filing the products for the information of the Authority..  
15. Wherever relevant and required , Life Insurers shall also file additional 
information as prescribed by the Authority from time to time.    
16. The Application Form for File and Use has the following nine sections: 
I. General Information 
II. General Terms and Conditions 
III. Benefit Structure 
IV. Underwriting 
V. Other Terms  
VI. Distribution Channels 
VII. Reinsurance arrangements 
VIII. Pricing 
IX. Enclosure to F&U Application 
 
Where an existing product is modified , Insurers shall file the complete 
information of the relevant section of the File and Use Application subject to 
norms specified under Clause – C of these Guidelines.    
 
B. Pilot Products (applicable for General and Health Insurers only): 
 
1. An Insurer who wishes to introduce a Pilot Product (both Individual and 
Group) as provided for in the  IRDAI (Health Insurance ) Regulations, 
2016 shall file an application for such product with the Authority as per 
the norms specified in Clause A (Chapter – III) above.  
2. It is reiterated that every Pilot Health Product shall be approved by the 
Product Management Committee before it is filed with the Authority. 
3. In addition to the documents specified under Clause A, Insurer shall 
also provide a detailed document providing jus tification for considering 
the product as a ‘Pilot Product ’ setting out the advantages and 
disadvantages associated with introduction of the Product along with 
market research, if any , on assessment of the need for the targeted  
market segment. 
4. Every Pilot Product shall be self -sustainable and the premium rates 
shall be representative of the target population’s age and morbidity.  
5. The Insurer shall also specify the period (in years) for which Insurer 
intends to offer such Pilot Product, subject to a maximum of 5 years 
from the date of launch of the product. The Prospectus, Policy

[Page 19]
Page 19 of 110 
 
Document, and sales literature of every Pilot Product shall disclose this 
information. 
6. The Product Management Committee shall, before the expiry of the 
period mentioned in sub -clause (5) above, record its decision as to 
whether such Pilot Product is to be withdrawn or be continued as a 
regular product. The A uthority shall be notified of such decision within 
30 days before the expiry of such period along with the reasons 
recorded by the PMC. Where the pilot product is withdrawn, the 
Guidelines specified for withdrawal of Products shall become 
applicable.   
7. Insurer shall submit the product performance details in respect of every 
‘Pilot Product ’ cleared by the Authority, in the Form IRDAI -HIPP 
(Annexure – 10) every year within 60 days of the close of the Financial 
Year.  
8. Insurers shall endeavour that the pilot product once launched is not 
modified. Where it is considered essential to modify the pilot product, 
the maximum shelf life of five years stipulated for a pilot product shall 
be reckoned from the date of launch of the initial pilot product.  
9. Every modificati on proposed in respect of any pilot product shall be 
approved by the PMC and filed with the Authority as per applicable 
provisions of these guidelines for clearance by the Authority.  
10. There shall be an informed choice to the existing policyholders of the 
pilot product before their policy is renewed on modified terms or price , 
if any.  
 
C.  Modification in terms and conditions of  products under File and Use 
(Applicable to Life, General and Health Insurers): 
 
1. No Insurer shall ordinarily modify or revise a product within one year from 
the date of its clearance by the Authority. 
2. Any revision  or modification of any approved health insurance product 
filed under File &  Use Procedure shall also require the prior clearance of 
the Authority as per the guidelines issued from time to time. 
3. An insurer, wishing to make changes to an existing product/rider or Add-
on, shall submit an application to the Authority on modular basis furnishing 
information of the relevant section of the File and Use application setting 
out the details of the changes or modifications in the terms and conditions 
and/or price. Any such modification shall have prior approval of the PMC  
as may be applicabl e. The PMC shall evaluate the modification to 
examine whether it has any impact on pricing and record the same. 
Accordingly, the product may be filed with the Authority for modification.

[Page 20]
Page 20 of 110 
 
4. Insurer shall provide reasons/justification for the proposed changes. 
5. Insurers shall file the necessary certificates as prescribed without 
deviating from the prescribed formats along with revised documents.  
6. However, the Authority reserves the right to call for complete F&U 
Application, if necessary, for examination of any such modification.   
7. In case a ny existing product offered by a General or Health Insurer is 
modified and launched, the earlier version of the product shall 
automatically cease to exist for new business and the modified version of 
the product shall be launched subject to complying with Clauses (3), (5), 
(6) and (7) of  Chapter – VI of norms on withdrawal of the products 
specified under these Guidelines.    
 
Implementation of the modified rates, terms and conditions shall be allowed 
only at the time of renewal  of the Policy  for the products offered by the 
general insurers and health insurers. For policies offered by life insurers, the 
implementation of the modified version of the Product shall  be prospectively 
allowed only for new business and the existing policies will continue with the 
prior version . However, Life Insurers may modify the premium rates as per 
the provisions of HIR 2016 subject to clearance by the Authority.  
 
D. Health plus Life Combi -Products (Applicable to Life, General and Health 
Insurers) 
 
Where a Life Insurer and a General or Health Insurer tie -up and offer any 
product under the class ‘Health plus Life Combi -Products’ as defined in 
Health Insurance Regulations 2016, they shall file an application as per 
procedure prescribed herein: 
 
1. There shall be an MOU in place between the Insurers as prescribed in the 
extant Regulations which shall be filed with the Authority independent of 
product filing.   Both the Insurers shall enter into an agreement prescribed 
in the said Regulations covering all the aspects specified in the 
Regulations including but not limited to nomination of Lead Insurer, modus 
operandi of marketing, policy servicing, sharing of common expenses, 
turnaround time (TAT) for policy servicing  and Options available to 
Policyholders on discontinuance of either portion of risk coverage etc. 
2. In case any Health plus Life Combi-product requires services not specified 
in the existing MoU, the Insurers may supplement it as per additional 
requirements and file the same with the Authority along with Form 
prescribed under these guidelines.

[Page 21]
Page 21 of 110 
 
3. Health plus Life combi prod ucts shall be approved by the PMC of 
respective General or Health I nsurers. Where the Health Plus Life Combi 
product offers any discount, there shall be a complete analysis approved 
by PMC  of the Health Insurer or General Insurer or by the Appointed 
Actuary of the Life Insurer as may be the case.   
4. Insurers shall ensure that the products combined do not have overlapping 
benefits. No Health Insurance product offered by  a Life Insurer shall be 
combined with another health insurance policy offered by a General or a 
Health Insurer.  
5. The Products offered under Combi products shall be individually cleared 
as per File & Use/Product Filing Guidelines applicable for Life and Health 
Products respectively. 
6. Insurers shall use the specified form IRDAI – FNU-HPLCombi (Annexure-
3) for filing the Combi -Product which shall be a combination of such 
already approved products. 
7. Filing of the Combi -Product by the Lead Insurer shall be treated as 
compliance. However, the Lead Insurer shall have the obligation of 
sharing the Authority’s directives to the other Insurer and shall be held 
responsible for non-communication, if any.   
8. Where an existing MoU is terminated , it shall be notified ninety days in 
advance to the stakeholders subject to the approval of the Authority.     
9. Needless to say, where a Combi product is withdrawn the underlying 
health cover is subject to extant regulations or guidelines relating to 
migration and portability.   
 
E. Non-Life Package Products where Health is one of the components of 
coverage:  
 
General Insurers may design Non -life package products combining Non -Life 
Covers with Health Covers (including PA or Travel) subject to the following 
norms.  
a. Every Non-life package product shall be placed before the PMC for 
approval. The suitability of packaging th e product, particularly from 
the perspective of meeting the reasonable expectations of the 
policyholders shall be analytically examined by PMC.  
b. In case a Non-Life Insurance package product has Health as one of 
its sections or covers, it shall be filed on modular basis in  Form 
IRDAI – FnU – HIP (Annexure - 1) prescribed under these 
guidelines.  
c. Where an already approved Health Insurance product or section is 
proposed to be packaged in a Non-Life Insurance Package product,

[Page 22]
Page 22 of 110 
 
the same shall be filed in Form IR DAI – FnU – NLHP (Annexure – 
2).  
d. A Non-Life Package Product shall carry the UIN allotted to the Non 
-Life Product only.  
 
 
F. HEALTH PACKAGE PRODUCTS: 
 
a. General Insurers and Health Insurers may design Health package 
products combining Health (including PA or Travel) with Non -Life 
covers/benefits where Health is a predominant cover. 
b. Where an Insurer proposes to offer Health Insurance package product  as 
defined under Schedule – 1 of this circular, it shall be filed in Form IRDAI 
– FnU – HIP (Annexure - 1) prescribed under these guidelines  in 
accordance with the norms specified under Clause (A) of Chapter - III.  
c. Where an Insurer wishes to create a Health Package policy by integrating 
products already noted or approved by the Authority without changing the 
policy wordings, terms, conditions and premium  rates, such package 
product shall be placed before the PMC for approval and filed with the 
Authority in Form IRDAI - FnUNLHP (Annexure - 2) specified under these 
guidelines for the approval  of the Authority . Where a section of an 
approved product is included in such a package cover,  instead of the 
entire product, such section can be packaged, provided it  has a  premium 
rate independent of the entire product premium. 
d. These norms are applicable only for packaging two or more products of 
the same General Insurer or Health Insurer. 
e. Insurers shall ensure that the package product offered under these 
guidelines have no overlapping benefits. The PMC shall ensure that the 
health pack age product does not contain  elements of the same type of 
insurance coverage in more than one section.  
f. Whenever any of the underlying products that are part of the Health 
Package Produ cts undergo any modification or revision as approved by 
the Authority, such modifications shall be reflected in the package product 
as well and due procedure followed.  
g. Every Health package product shall carry a UIN allotted by the Authority.

[Page 23]
Page 23 of 110 
 
CHAPTER IV ::  USE AND FILE PROCEDURE 
 
(Applicable to only General Insurers and Health Insurers) 
 
Group  products  (other than pilot products)  offered by General Insurers and 
Health Insurers, including products  offered  for schemes sponsored by the State 
and Centra l Governments may be launched without prior approval of the 
Authority, subject to the following stipulations:  
 
I. Group products other than Government Schemes: 
  
i. The product shall be approved by the Product Management 
Committee. 
ii.  Insurers shall obtain UIN for every insurance product referred under 
this section from IRDAI by duly informing the name of the insurance 
product proposed to be launched under Use and File.  
The  product (Other than Government  Sponsored Schemes) shall be 
filed with the Authority within seven days from the date of approval by 
PMC in the Form IRDAI-UnF-HLTGRP (Annexure – 4) specified in 
these Guidelines. 
iii. For every Group Health Insurance Scheme filed under these 
guidelines, the Insurer  shall furnish Annual Return in Format 
prescribed (IRDAI-GHISAR) (Annexure  9) within 60 days from the 
close of the Financial Year. 
 
II.  Insurance Schemes sponsored by Governments:  Insurance products offered 
by insurers for schemes sponsored by the Sta te and Central Governments, shall 
adhere to the conditions of the scheme  as laid down by the Government.    
Insurers are required to comply with the following.  
 
 
1.  Every insurance product proposed to be offered as a scheme sponsored by 
Governments shall be placed and approved by the PMC and UIN shall be 
obtained from the Authority. 
2. The Insurer shall furnish the details in Form – IRDAI-UNF-GOVTHLT within 
fifteen days of the date of award of tender. 
3. Insurers are allowed to participate in the tender process, provided the 
a. Proposed insurance scheme is sponsored by Central or any State 
Government; 
b. Insurer shall be responsible to comply with the provision of Section 
64VB.

[Page 24]
Page 24 of 110 
 
4. The pricing of such schemes shall be based on the previous experience of 
similar schemes offered by the insurer, if any. 
5. If an existing product of the insurer, which is approved by the Authority under 
File and Use Procedure or which is filed under Use and File Procedure as 
stipulated under these Guidelines, is in total conformity with the proposed 
insurance scheme including the pricing, the insurer shall inform the Authority 
of such award and submit all the relevant details in Form – IRDAI-UNF-
GOVTHLT (Annexure 5) within fifteen days from the date of such award.  
6. On review of information filed under  Form – IRDAI-UNF-GOVTHLT, the 
Authority may call for such other information in such form as may be required 
7. Where the insurer is awarded the tender for different unit areas subsequently, 
the insurer shall submit this information to the Authority in  Form – IRDAI-
UNF-GOVTHLT. Where there are any modifications or differences, if any, 
with regard to the pricing of the contract and features of the contract in 
respect of subsequent awards, the Insurer shall follow the procedure  referred 
in these Guidelines. Such modifications shall duly consider and document: 
a. The method of computation of premium; 
b. Source of data, assumptions and loadings made; 
c. Expected loss ratios and expected combined ratios across the age 
groups for Health Insurance Products for a policy term offered; 
d. In addition to (c) above, expected profit margins along with the risk 
discount rates across different age -groups for health insurance 
products with policy term offered; 
e. The Appointed Actuary certificate on viability of the rates proposed; 
f. Features that have been changed from the previous filing; 
8. Insurer shall inform the Authority any penalties or termination imposed by the 
Government, within SEVEN days of receipt of intimation of any such action; 
9. If the premium is the only variant for the subsequen t tender award across 
various other districts or other areas, the insurer shall follow the norms 
specified at Clause No. (7) above.  
10. The insurers shall submit Annual Return in respect of the schemes referred 
herein in Form IRDAI-GHIS (Annexure – 8) as specified therein. 
11. If claims experience (net incurred claims ratio) for the said portfolio turns out 
to be more than 90% for the consecutive four half years, the insurer is not 
allowed to participate in the tender for any Government sponsored scheme 
for a period of at least two following Financial Years; However, the insurer 
shall continue to provide services in the areas where the tender is awarded till 
the expiry of agreed period of tender. 
Provided that, where the Insurer could not participate in the ten der for reasons 
referred at Clause ( 11) above, the insurer shall not participate in any Government

[Page 25]
Page 25 of 110 
 
sponsored tender process unless an explicit approval for such participation is sought 
by the insurer and approved by the Authority.  
12. Any i nformation pertaini ng to Government Sponsored Scheme  shall be 
submitted to the Authority as and when required.   
 
 
III. Other Stipulations for Group Products:  
 
1) Every Insurer shall put in place effective operational procedures to service 
the Group Insurance Products filed under Use and File. The Insurer shall 
also ensure that the internal systems and controls are in place to manage 
the product related risks  before launching any product under Use and File 
procedure.  
 
2) No changes shall be effected in respect of any group insurance product 
filed under the Use and File.  
 
3) Insurers shall ensure the dissemination of complete product information to 
the insurance intermediaries immediately after launch of the product. 
Necessary procedures shall be put in place to impart the requisite prod uct 
training to all the insurance intermediaries that are marketing the products 
launched under the Use and File.  
4) Insurers shall maintain the records such as proposal form, internal notes, 
details of quotation given and details of acceptance, detail ed premium 
worksheet along with the basis for working including previous claims 
details, Policy Schedule, list of named beneficiaries etc. wherever 
applicable with respect to every policy issued for a period of 5 years from 
the date of expiry of the Policy.  
5) All the pricing factors shall be duly certified by the Appointed Actuary  and 
be placed before PMC for its review and approval. The reserving for these 
products shall be as per the relevant extant regulations.  
6) Insurers must justify the rates and terms inc luding discounts given to any 
group, if called upon to do so, within the time frame specified by the 
Authority.  
7) The Authority reserves the right to require an insurer to state the process 
of quoting terms for a particular client and to technically justify  the 
premium quoted for its covers. 
8) Insurer shall also maintain the I ncurred Claims Ratio (ICR) of every policy 
issued to Groups.

[Page 26]
Page 26 of 110 
 
9) The Insurance Company providing quote for Group Health Insurance may 
seek the details of ICR of the Group with the existing I nsurer. The General 
Insurance Council is encouraged to develop and put in place a suitable 
mechanism in this regard.  
10) The PMC shall be responsible for monitoring the product management 
cycle of all ‘Use and File’ products. 
11) Group Insurance Products which ar e filed with the Authority but are yet to 
be cleared under the erstwhile File and Use Procedure shall be returned 
to the respective Insurers. Insurers would be required to comply with the 
relevant Guidelines for these products also. 
12) The Authority reserves the right to examine the produc ts launched under 
Use and File category and may take such action as deemed fit or may 
issue such directions as considered necessary , which shall be binding on 
such Insurer.  
13) Where any Insurer is found to be non -compliant with  the extant Health 
Insurance Regulations or other relevant regulatory framework including 
the framework pertaining to the products allowed under Use and File 
category, the Authority reserves the right to withdraw the Use and File 
facility for such Insurer and thereafter, such Insurer shall file the products 
referred under this chapter – IV as per  File and Use Procedure in Form 
IRDAI – FNU-HIP (Annexure – 1) prescribed under these Guidelines and 
obtain prior approval.  
14) The Authority reserves the right to direct the Insurers to discontinue the 
marketing of the health insurance product launched under Use and File 
Guidelines.   
Group Health Insur ance Products offered by Life Insurers are subject to the 
applicable File and Use Guidelines in force.  Life Insurers shall file the Group Health 
Products as per the format Form IRDAI – FNU-HIP (Annexure – 1) prescribed under 
these Guidelines.

[Page 27]
Page 27 of 110 
 
CHAPTER V ::  ADDITIONAL GUIDELINES FOR GROUP INSURANCE 
(Not Applicable to Government Sponsored Schemes) 
In addition to the requirements stipulated in Guidelines on Group  Health Insurance 
Policies Vide Circular Ref.  No: 015/IRDA/Life/Circular/GI Guidelines/2005 dated 
14/07/2005 issued by the Authority as amended from time to time, all Group 
Insurance Policies shall comply with the following norms: 
1) Subject to the minimum number prescribed in Regulation (7) of HIR, 2016 
every Group Health Insurance Product shall specify the minimum group size 
for offering Group Health Insurance Policy.  
2) No Group Insurance policy shall be issued to a group whose size is less than 
the minimum stipulated expecting that the group would reach that size in 
future over a period of time.  
3) The policy term of every group insurance policy shall be as stipulated in HIR, 
2016. Where the Group Insurance Policy is open for the entry of members at 
periodic intervals say every month or every quarter, though the duration of the 
Group P olicy may be beyond the policy term stipulated in HIR, 2016, the 
insurance coverage for every member of the group insurance policy shall not 
exceed the maximum policy term stipulated in HIR, 2016. 
4) Subject to maintaining the minimum group size and the maxim um policy term 
stipulated in HIR, 2016 Insurers may issue multiple group insurance policies 
in tranches to the Group Organizer for providing insurance coverage to the 
new members on an ongoing basis.   
5) The underwriting/rate review process of the group poli cies at the time of 
renewal should consider the member entry and exit patterns from the group in 
order to address the possibility of adverse selection, moral hazard or fraud. 
6) Subject to portability norms stipulated in HIR, 2016; persons, who join a group 
insurance scheme shall , on their leaving the group as per group rules, be 
provided an option to migrate to another policy at the premium as applicable 
for such  individual insurance, with all benefits of portability. It should be 
facilitated both by the group organiser and the insurer concerned. 
7)  A master policy is to be issued to the group, which should be available for 
guidance of the members covered. Subject to the extant Guidelines on Group 
Insurance all members should be issued a Certificate of Insurance giving the 
details of the benefits and the important conditions and exclusions. 
8) All discounts should be based on valid underwriting considerations, taking 
into account  the loss experience of the group, the expenses including 
commission that may be incurred / payable. 
9) Insurers must justify the rates and terms offered to any group to the Authority, 
if called upon to do so. 
10) All insurers wishing to offer group insurance should have a Board approved 
group insurance underwriting policy which should be pa rt of the underwriting 
policy filed with the Authority. The policy should spell out the manner in which 
its risk and costs are analyzed and factored in to the premium cost. All risk 
factors per units of coverage such as individual, family, group floater, et c.,

[Page 28]
Page 28 of 110 
 
should be separately analyzed and priced. Past experience and future 
exposures should also be critically analyzed for large groups.  
Explanatory Note: Large Group for the purpose of these Guidelines is a group 
extending coverage to over and above 500 members.  
11) Pricing is to be made based on sound actuarial principles, supporting data  
considering all the relevant aspects of pricing such as morbidity experience 
by gender, by age group, by occupation, by group size etc, expenses, 
terminations, profit marg in etc . Discounts and Loadings offered shall be 
based on objective criteria with appropriate justifications. For innovative 
covers, Insurers shall base the pricing prudentially on the relevant morbidity 
experience which reflect s the future expected experience from such 
innovative covers apart from considering other parameters.  
12) All group health insurance policies having named beneficiaries should have  
ID cards issued to the beneficiaries to enable them  obtain cashless service, 
wherever applicable.  
13) Unnamed policies e.g. Personal Accident may  also be issued provided the 
group has non -tamperable registers or records or procedures to identify the 
member insured / covered. The registers, records or the  procedures shall be 
subject to inspection at any time. 
14) As part of the Terms and Conditions of the Group Insurance policy the Insurer 
shall put in place enabling provisions to let the beneficiary or the insured 
member directly raise grievances either with the insurer or with other 
Grievances redressal mechanism available. The granular details in this 
regard shall be part of the terms and conditions mentioned in the Certificate of 
Insurance.  
15) The group  administrator’s role as facilitator in offering a group cover and 
facilitating insurance services including claims from a central point needs to 
be clearly spelt out between the group and insurer as part of the Terms and 
Conditions.  
16) The insurer and the concerned Insurance Agent or Insurance Intermediary, if 
any, will be held responsible for any malpractice in respect of the Group 
Policy that is detrimental to the beneficiary members or potential consumers 
or to the public at large and for violation of any regulation or guidelines of the 
Authority relating to the insurance transactions with groups.

[Page 29]
Page 29 of 110 
 
CHAPTER VI :: WITHDRAWAL OF PRODUCTS 
Where insurers wish to withdraw a ny Individual or Group product, they shall file an 
application as per procedure set out herein. 
1. The decision to withdraw a ny Health Insurance product shall be taken by the 
PMC in case of General Insurers and Health Insurers . The reason for 
withdrawal of the product shall be clearly documented and filed with IRDAI in 
the prescribed form.  In case of Life Insurers , the withdrawal of a product is 
subject to the extant applicable norms.  
2. The Policy document shall clearly indicate the possibility of withdrawal of the 
products in future and suitable options that would be  made available to the 
policyholder on withdrawal of the products.  
3. A withdrawn Individual Health Insurance product shall not be offered to new 
customers after the date of the withdrawal. 
a. Provided, no product that is withdrawn shall be renewed for the 
existing policyholders whose policies are due for renewal 90 days after 
the date of the withdrawal of the product . All policyholders of the 
withdrawn product that are due for renewal up to the expiry of ninety 
days from the date of withdraw al shall be given an option of renewing 
the existing product or migrating to the modified version of  the product 
or to the new product, as may be the case, subject to portability norms 
in vogue. The existing policyholders shall be given an informed choice 
in this regard.  
b. Provided further, the option of allowing migration subject to portability 
conditions is applicable to the  Health Insurance Policies issued by 
General Insurers and Health Insurers.   
c. Provided further , the option of allowing the renewal of the product 
withdrawn to the existing customers of the withdrawn Health Insurance 
Policy shall be a onetime option to be provided only in the immediate 
renewal due date that falls within 90 days from the date of the 
withdrawal of a product. 
4. Any Individual or Group Health Insurance P roduct offered with a term 
exceeding one year, shall be continued on the agreed terms for all the 
existing policyholders for the entire policy term.  
a. Provided Individual Health Insurance products offered for a term 
exceeding one year, on withdrawal , shall follow the norms specified in 
Clause (3) above.  
b. Provided further, subject to complying with Clause (16 ) of Schedule – I 
of HIR, 2016 a  Group Health Insurance Product  may be withdrawn  
prospectively.

[Page 30]
Page 30 of 110 
 
c. Provided further, the Product Management Committee shall put i n 
place guidelines for withdrawal of any group health insurance product. 
The norms , inter alia, shall address the basis of the withdrawal, the 
notice period to be made available to the Group Organizer, options to 
be offered if any, to the Group Organizer and/or the insured members.  
5. All the distribution channels that are marketing the products shall be notified 
about the decision to withdraw a product from a specified date. All distribution 
channels shall be instructed not to use any publicity material  of the product 
withdrawn from such date. 
6. Insurers shall put in place measures to underwrite new proposals that were 
procured prior to the effective date of withdrawal.  
7. Any premiums or deposit received towards the product that is withdrawn, but 
where no policy has been issued, shall be refunded to the policyholders. Such 
monies shall not be adjusted for issuance of any other policies except with 
specific consent of the policyholder.  
a. Provided the consent of the policyholder shall be recorded.  
8. Companies shall display the list of the products withdrawn along with the date 
of withdrawal in their websites.  
9. Insurers shall also put in place measures for immediate withdrawal of sales 
literature, prospectus and publicity material that is issued in respect of the 
product withdrawn.   
10. Insurers shall use the specified Form IRDAI-HPW (Annexure – 6) for notifying 
the Authority about the withdrawal of products as well as riders/add-ons within 
30 days from the date of withdrawal.  
11. Withdrawal of  specific sections of the product is not permitted. Such 
withdrawals shall be filed as modifications.

[Page 31]
Page 31 of 110 
 
CHAPTER: VII :: GUIDELINES ON WELLNESS FEATURES/BENEFITS  
 
a. No Wellness feature/benefit shall be offered without  it being  filed or 
incorporated as part of the product in terms of the Product Filing Guidelines. 
b. No payments shall be made by any Insurer to any third party service provider 
towards wellness features/benefits. 
c. There shall be no discrimination in providing any of the wellness 
features/benefits offered to like categories under the terms and conditions of 
the policy contract.   
d. Every Insurer shall assess the pricing impact of wellness features  offered, if 
any, and the same shall be disclosed upfront in the File and Use application 
prescribed in the Product Filing  Guidelines, in case of individual products. In 
case of group products the same shall be specified in the Use and File 
procedure put in place by the Authority.  
e. Any Wellness feature shall be designed only with the objective of maintaining 
good health and improving it.  
f. Use of protein supplements and other such consumable health boosters shall 
not be considered to be part of a wellness feature. . 
g. In case of Family Floater Plans, Insurers should clearly defin e the manner in 
which accrual and redemption of benefits is considered in respect of all 
members covered. 
h. Insurer to clearly specify in the policy contract as to whether the accrued 
benefits can be carried forward or not when the policy is renewed with the  
Insurer and the period of validity of the accrued benefits under both the 
scenarios. 
i. The benefit accrued shall be at periodic intervals at rates/amounts declared 
upfront at the commencement of the policy and shall not be linked to any 
dynamic factor such as interest rate etc. The same shall be specified in the 
Policy Document. 
j. Insurer shall notify the benefits accrued to the credit of a Policyholder and 
entitlements of the policyholders under the said feature at periodic intervals –
at least once in a year.  
k. Insurers shall also specify the manner of redeeming the benefits allowed 
under the said feature in the prospectus, policy wordings and shall disclose in 
their website updated information which  is also to be reflected in the policy 
contract. 
l. Insurer shall  be responsible for any errors or omission in calculation of 
accrued benefits and shall address the same through their in -house 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
m. Insurer shall specify , in the Policy Wordings and Prospectus , the mode of 
communication that the Insurer adopts for notification of various activities 
offered or allowed under the Wellness feature.  
n. Information gathered during the process of offering the wellness benefits, if 
any, shall be kept confidential and shall not be used for purposes other tha n 
what it is meant for.  
o. The Authority has the right to accept or reject wellness features if they are 
against policyholders ’ interests and are not in line with fair market conduct

[Page 32]
Page 32 of 110 
 
notwithstanding the fact that they may broadly meet with the above 
guidelines.  
p. The Authority reserves the right to instruct the Insurance Company to 
withdraw any Wellness feature which is not in compliance with any 
regulations or guidelines issued by the Authority or which is found to be 
prejudicial to the interests of the policyholders or not in line with fair market 
conduct. The Authority also reserves the right in such cases to take 
appropriate action as deemed fit. 
q. Insurers shall ensure that advertisem ents highlight the insurance benefit 
offered and the wellness features do not predominate.  
 
The Provisions stipulated in this section shall be read in conjunction with 
Regulation (19) of HIR, 2016.

[Page 33]
Page 33 of 110 
 
SCHEDULE – 1 
DEFINITIONS 
(1)  File & Use:  File & Use procedure is one where the Insurer is NOT permitted 
to market the health insurance product without filing with and getting clearance of 
IRDAI.  
 
(2)  Use & File : Use and File procedure is one where the Insurer is permitted to 
market the product after due approval by the Product Management Committee, 
without prior filing / approval of IRDAI.   
 
(3) Government Sponsored Health Insurance Scheme : Any Health Insurance 
Scheme designed or notified or  sponsored or subsidized either fully or partly by the 
Central Government and /or State Government and offered by IRDAI registered 
Indian Insurance Companies shall be termed as Government Sponsored Health 
Insurance Scheme for the purpose of these Guidelines.  
Explanation: Any insurance scheme offered by any other public sector 
undertaking or autonomous body shall not constitute Government Sponsored 
Health Insurance Scheme.  
 
(4)  Group Products: Subject to the provisions of HIR, 2016, t hese are products 
which are sold to a group as per the provisions of group guidelines issued by IRDAI 
vide circular 015/IRDA/Life/Circular/GI Guidelines/2005 dated 14th July 2005 as 
amended from time to time. 
 
(5)  Non-Life Package Products : These are prod ucts created by combining 
covers pertaining to Health or PA or Travel with Non-Life Covers or Benefits but here 
the sections other than those falling under ‘Health Insurance Business ’ would be 
predominant. Such product shall, however, comply with HIR, 2016 as far as sections 
falling under Health Insurance Business are concerned.  
 
(6)  Health Package Products: Health Package products are products which are 
created by packaging various sections/benefits or Health Insurance products. They 
could contain sections offering other Non -life products but the majority of the 
sections would be related to Health Insurance Business. 
  
(7)  Product Management Committee (PMC): Product Management Committee 
is a committee constituted by the insurer in terms of Circular  No. 
IRDAI/NL/GDL/F&U/030/02/2016 dated 18 th February, 2016 for the purpose of 
efficient management of Insurer’s Products, which acts as an internal self-monitoring 
mechanism within an Insurer . Such Committee has the responsibility to ensure due 
diligence in the areas product design , protection of policyholders ’ interests and 
regulatory compliance and shall be subject to broad Regulatory Overview.

[Page 34]
Page 34 of 110 
 
SCHEDULE – 2 
 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SHEET 
 
Description is illustrative and not exhaustive 
Sl 
No 
Title Description Policy 
Clause 
Number 
1 Product Name • Approved Product Name  
2 What am I covered for SPECIFY AS PER POLICY TERMS AND 
CONDITIONS: 
• Hospital admission longer than xx hrs 
• Related  medical expenses incurred xx 
days prior to hospitalization amounting  to 
x% of claim 
• Related medical expenses incurred 
within xx days from date of discharge / 
amounting to x% of claim. 
• Specified / Listed procedures requiring 
less than 24 hours hospitalization (day 
care)  
• Cover for xx critical illness on undergoing 
specified procedure or on diagnosis of 
an illness of specified severity 
• Hospital daily cash benefit of Rs —per 
day 
• OPD / Dental/: Maternity coverage 
• Emergency or Travel Medical Assistance 
etc 
 
3 What are the major 
exclusions in the 
policy: 
• Any hospital admission primarily for 
investigation diagnostic purpose  
• Pregnancy, infertility 
• Domiciliary treatment, treatment outside 
India. 
• Circumcision, sex change surgery, 
cosmetic surgery & plastic surgery. 
• Refractive error correction, hearing 
impairment correction, corrective &

[Page 35]
Page 35 of 110 
 
cosmetic dental surgeries. 
• Organ donor expenses. 
• Substance abuse, self -inflicted injuries, 
STDs and HIV/AIDS. 
• Hazardous sports, war, terrorism, civil 
war or breach of law. 
• Any kind of service charge, surcharge, 
admission fees, registration fees levied 
by the hospital. 
 
(Note: the above is a partial listing of the 
policy exclusions. Please refer to the policy 
clauses for the full listing) 
4 Waiting period • Initial waiting Period: xx days for all 
illness (not applicable on renewal or for 
accidents) 
• Specific Waiting periods: 
o xx months for xx diseases 
(clauses aa to bb) 
o xx months for yy diseases 
(clauses cc to dd) 
(Insurers may specify the specific 
waiting periods) 
• Pre-existing diseases:  Covered after _ 
months / Not covered) 
 
5 Payment basis • Reimbursement of covered expenses up 
to specified limits AND/OR  
• Fixed amount on the occurrence of a 
covered event 
 
6 Loss Sharing • In case of a claim, this policy requires 
you to share the following costs: 
o Expenses exceeding the following 
Sub-limits 
§ Room / ICU charges beyond --
---------- 
§ For the following specified 
diseases:

[Page 36]
Page 36 of 110 
 
§ ______________ 
§ ______________ 
o Deductible of Rs. XXX per claim / 
per year / both 
o xx% of each claim as Co-
payment (yy% in a non-network 
hospital) 
7 Renewal Conditions • Your policy is ordinarily renewable (OR 
Guaranteed) up to age x (OR for x years) 
• After you attain the age of x years, the 
following features of your policy change: 
• ---------------------- 
• ---------------------- 
• Other terms and conditions of renewal 
 
8 Renewal Benefits • x% increase in your annual limit for every 
claim free year  
• In the case a claim is made during a 
policy year, the bonus proportion would 
reduce by x% in the following year. 
• For every block of x claim free policy 
years, free health check up for the 
insured persons subject to maximum x% 
of sum insured. 
 
9 Cancellation • This policy would be cancelled, and no 
claim or refund would be due to you if: 
o you have not correctly disclosed 
details about current and past 
health status OR 
o Have otherwise encouraged or 
participated in any fraudulent 
claim under the policy.  
 
10 Claims  • For Cashless Service: 
(Provide the details /web link from where 
Hospital Network details can be 
obtained) 
• For Reimbursement of Claim

[Page 37]
Page 37 of 110 
 
(Note: Time limit for intimation and submission 
of claim documents, if any) 
11  Policy Servicing/ 
Grievances/Complaints 
• Company Officials: 
• IRDAI/(IGMS/Call Centre): 
• Ombudsman 
(Note: Please provide the contact details, 
Toll free number/e-mail) 
 
12 Insured’s Rights • Free Look: 
• Implied renewability (except on certain 
specific grounds) 
• Migration and Portability:     (Note: 
Please mention e-mail and Address of 
the Person to be contacted for outward 
migration) 
• Increase in SI during the Policy term 
(Note: Please provide the contact details, 
if allowed) 
• Turn Around Time (TAT) for issue of Pre-
Auth and settlement of Reimbursement  
 
13 Insured’s Obligations • Please disclose all pre-existing disease/s 
or condition/s before buying a policy. 
Non-disclosure may result in claim not 
being paid.  
• Disclosure of Material Information during 
the policy period such as change in 
occupation (Note: If applicable, please 
provide details of the format & to whom 
the form is to be sent) 
 
Legal Disclaimer Note: The information must be read in conjunction with the product 
brochure and policy document. In case of any conflict between the CIS and the policy 
document, the terms and conditions mentioned in the policy document shall prevail.

[Page 38]
Page 38 of 110 
 
Annexure - 1 
APPLICATION FORM FOR FILING HEALTH INSURANCE PRODUCTS/ADD-ON 
OFFERED BY LIFE, HEALTH AND GENERAL INSURERS 
I. THIS APPLICATION IS APPLICABLE TO LIFE, HEALTH AND GENERAL 
INSURERS REGISTERED WITH INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF INDIA FOR CONDUCTING HEALTH 
INSURANCE BUSINESS IN INDIA FOR FILING HEALTH INSURANCE 
PRODUCTS UNDER THE CATEGOR IES AS SPECIFIED IN GUIDELINES 
ON PRODUCT FILING IN HEALTH INSURANCE BUSINESS.TH E 
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED HEREIN ARE TO BE COMPLIED WITH WHILE 
FILING THE PRODUCTS. 
 
1. Description of File and Use Procedure -  
a. An insurer, who wishes to introduce a new product under the category 
specified under Chapter III (A), (B) & (C) (File and Use Procedur e) of 
Guidelines on Product Filing in Health Insurance Business, shall file an 
application for such product with the Authority for the approval. 
b. A separate application shall be made in respect of each such product and 
each such Add-on Or Rider. 
c. This Form s hall also be used by all Life Insurers and by General and 
Health Insurers as referred at Clause (III) (13) of Chapter (IV) of the 
Product Filing Guidelines for filing the Group Health Insurance Products. 
 
2. Filing of new insurance products -  
a. An insurer, wishing to introduce a product  as above , shall submit an 
application to the Authority along with Form IRDAI - FNUHIP  for the 
approval of the Authority. 
 
3. Procedure  to be followed for modifications in the existing products –  
a. The Application is divided into the following sections. 
I. General Information 
II. General Terms and Conditions 
III. Benefit Structure 
IV. Underwriting 
V. Other Terms  
VI. Distribution Channels 
VII. Reinsurance arrangements 
VIII. Pricing 
IX. Enclosure to F&U Application

[Page 39]
Page 39 of 110 
 
b. Application seeking modification of the existing indi vidual/Group 
insurance product shall furnish information under the relevant section 
or sections that are proposed to be modified and consequently 
impacted owing to such modification. 
c. Every modification shall be supported by the technical note of the 
appointed actuary substantiating the modifications proposed.  
d. Where Changes proposed to  the product impact  Benefit Structure, 
Terms and Conditions and the Pricing , complete application shall be 
filed.   
4. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS 
a. If an insurer wishes to offer Add-ons along with a basic health 
insurance product, the Company must furnish the information in 
respect of the respective Add -ons separately using this form for each 
proposed Add -on. Also the financial projections along with sensitivity 
analysis for each add-on benefit need to be furnished.  
b. Where already cleared Add -on/s is /are proposed to be offered along 
with the new product now filed, Insurers shall necessarily furnish the 
financial projections / Sensitivity Analysis for each of the Add -on 
separately. 
Note: If an insurer offers an existing Add -on A along with product X, product Y or 
product Z (e.g. Critical Illness), then financial projection / Sensitivity Analysis has to 
be furnished afresh along with each of the products under which the said Add -on is 
proposed to be offered. This is because the financial projections for the Add -on may 
differ under that product. For instance, the financial projections submitted for Add -on 
A along with product X need not be the same when the same Add -on A is offered 
along with product Y. As such the financial projections / Sensitivity Analysis need to 
be furnished for the said Add -on along with each product in the specified  sections. It 
may be noted that Add-on details need not be mentioned again but only the financial 
projections are to be filed, when the same Add-on is offered along with the second or 
the third product.  
c. All items in the Form must be furnished with the relevant details.  
d. The Appointed Actuary shall initial on all the pages of the File and Use 
application form.  
 
NOTE: FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS APPLICATION ADD -ON INCLUDES 
RIDERS OFFERED BY LIFE INSURERS.

[Page 40]
Page 40 of 110 
 
II. File and Use Application form: 
Form IRDAI – FNU-HIP 
 [All the items should be filled in properly and carefully. No item must be left blank.] 
S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by insurer) 
Section I: General Information 
1.1  Name of Life / Health / 
General Insurer  
1.2 Registration No.alloted by 
IRDAI  
1.3 Name of Appointed Actuary 
[Please note that his/her 
appointment should be in 
force as on the  date of this 
application] 
 
1.4 Type of product  Base Product/Add-on/Rider 
1.5 Brand Name [Give the name 
of the  product which  will be 
printed in Sales Literature and 
known in the market. This 
name should not be 
altered/modified in any form 
after launching in the market. 
This name shall appear in all 
returns etc. which would be 
submitted to  IRDA I. Insurers 
are advised to indicate in the 
brand name the type of 
product offered, such as 
Micro, Pilot, CSC etc. as per 
extant regulations / 
guidelines] 
 
1.6 Whether New or Modification New / Modification of existing product 
1.7 Date of approval by PMC 
(applicable to General and 
Health Insurers) 
 
1.8 Specify the Sections which 
are being modified

[Page 41]
Page 41 of 110 
 
 1.8.1 Unique ID no. 
(allotted by IRDAI, 
where  application is 
for modification of 
an exisitng product) 
 
 1.8.2 Within how many 
days the Insurer 
intends to launch the 
modified version of 
the product after 
clearance by the 
Authority.   
 
 1.8.3 Type of Modification 1. Pricing with change in Benefit Structure  
2. Pricing without change in Benefit 
Structure 
3. Pricing with Change in Terms and 
Conditions 
4. Pricing without Change in Terms and 
Conditions 
5. Terms and Conditions without pricing 
impact 
6. Benefit Structure without pricing impact 
7. Others – Please Specify 
  1.8.4 
6.3.  
 
Is the Product 
Modification filed  for 
the first time?    
Yes/No 
 1.8.4.1 If YES, Please  
furnish the date of 
first filing of the 
product. If  No, 
please give furnish 
information in item 
no. 1.9 
dd/mm/yyyy 
 1.8.4.2 Please give the proposed modifications in the following tabular form 
 S.no Existing 
Features 
/ 
assumpti
ons/premi
ums rates 
–which 
are 
proposed 
to modify 
Propose
d 
modifica
tions 
Justification for such 
modification 
Any supporting data  
for such modification

[Page 42]
Page 42 of 110 
 
      
1.9 Please give complete history of modifications carried out till date in the 
following tabular format 
 S No Date 
of 
modif
icatio
n 
filed 
with 
the 
Autho
rity 
Exisitng 
Features/ 
Assumptions/ 
premium 
rates as on 
date of 
clearance of 
the product 
i.e. before the 
modification 
Features/Assumption
s/premium rates 
modified from the 
first/subsequent filing 
i.e. after the 
clearance of the 
modification 
Date of clearance of 
the modification from 
the Authority and the 
unique identifi cation 
number allotted 
 (1) (2) (3) (4)  (5) 
1.10  Proposed Date of 
launching the 
modified version of 
the product 
Dd/mm/yyyy 
1.11 Whether the modification of 
the product involves change 
in Price? If yes, furnish the 
information in Section VIII. If 
no, furnish a certifiation from 
the Appointed Actuary that 
there is no affect on the 
pricing of the product. 
YES/NO 
1.12 Expected loss ratio & 
Combined Ratio (for the 
product) at the time of filing 
the product or modification of 
the product, as the case may 
be vis-à-vis the actual 
incurred loss ratio & actual 
Combined Ratio ( Data to be 
furnished separately for each 
Financial Year) 
FY Loss Ratio % Combined Ratio% 
Expected  Actual Expected  Actual 
     
     
 
1.13 Number of Plans or Variants 
or options within the Product 
and Nomenclature Used 
Name of the Base 
Product 
 
Number of plans or 
variants or Options

[Page 43]
Page 43 of 110 
 
Name of plan or 
variant or option 
(Mention each 
name separately in 
each sentense) 
 
 
1.14 Within how many days the 
Insurer is proposing to launch 
the new product aft er the 
clearance by Authority. 
 
Section II : General Terms and Conditions 
2.1 Whether Pilot Product – Yes / No 
2.2 If Yes Maximum Number of Years product proposed to be marketed: 
2.3 If Yes product is to cover – Specific Market Segment (e.g. a specific class of 
substandard lives) or a Specific disease 
2.4 Objective, basis which the product is proposed to be offered as a Pilot 
Product (provide Description separately, if necessary ) 
2.5 Whether the product is Micro Insurance Product – Yes / No 
2.6 Whether the Product is for any specific Distribution Channel like CSC, PoS 
2.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whether the health product is offered to/through: [Answer YES/NO] 
2.7.1  Individual/Group Individual/Group 
 
2.7.1.1  
On Family Floater 
basis 
YES / NO 
2.7.1.2 On Individual basis YES/NO 
2.7.1.3 
 
Both Individual and 
Family Floater basis 
YES / NO 
2.7.2 Specific geographic 
locations in India [if 
YES, specify the 
locations.] 
YES / NO 
2.7.3 All geographic 
locations  in India 
YES / NO 
2.7.4  Rural population YES / NO 
2.8.5 Micro Insurance 
Market Segment  
YES / NO 
2.7.6 Category of basic 
cover 
Health/Travel-Domestic/Travel - 
Overseas/Personal Accident / Critical Illness 
2.7.7 Only Indemnity 
basis 
YES / NO 
2.7.9 Only Assured 
Benefit basis 
YES / NO 
 2.7.10 Both Indemnity and 
Assured benefit 
Basis  
Yes/No

[Page 44]
Page 44 of 110 
 
2.8 Specify the following: 
2.8.1    Target population 
[This section should 
discuss the target 
market for which the 
product is designed. 
Also please enclose 
separately the details 
of any market 
research conducted 
for this purpose.] 
 
2.8.2        Whether Grace 
period allowed for 
renewal—specify the 
number of days 
allowed for renewal of 
the contract. 
 
2.8.3  Whether Grace 
period allowed for 
payment of premiums 
in installments—
specify the number of 
days allowed for 
payment of premium 
when premiums are 
not paid on stipulated 
dates.  
 
   
2.8.4 Basic Sum Insured (in INR):  
2.8.4.1 Minimum 
offered 
 
2.8.4.2 Maximum 
offered 
 
   
2.8.5  Policy Period: 
2.8.5.1  Minimum 
Policy 
period 
offered 
 
2.8.5.2  Maximum 
Policy

[Page 45]
Page 45 of 110 
 
period 
offered 
2.8.5.3  Premium 
paying term, 
if different 
from policy 
term 
(a) Minimum Premium Paying Term 
 
(b) Maximum Premium Paying Term 
2.8.6  Modes of Premium Payment Offered:   
2.8.6.1  State the 
modes of 
premium 
payment 
allowed- 
(Single 
premium 
/annual/ 
halfy-yearly, 
etc.) 
 
   
2.8.7  Annualised Premium (Wherever applicable) 
2.8.7.1 Minimum:  
2.8.7.2 Maximum:  
   
2.8.8 Entry Age: 
 
2.8.8.1  Minimum: Proposer Child Adult 
   
 
2.8.8.2  Maximum:  
Proposer Child Adult 
   
 
   
2.8.9 Maximum Age at 
entry 
Proposer Child Adult 
   
 
2.8.9.
1 
Specify the cover 
ceasing age of Child 
 
2.8.1
0  
Restrictions on travel 
outside India (If YES, 
specify the conditions] 
YES/NO

[Page 46]
Page 46 of 110 
 
2.8.1
1 
 Any other restrictions 
[If there is restriction 
proposed, the same 
should be furnished, 
e.g. future 
occupation] 
YES/NO 
2.8.1
2 
Whether Nomination 
facility available 
Yes / No 
2.8.1
3  
Whether Assignment 
allowed 
Yes / No 
 
2.8.1
4 
Minimum Group Size  
Section III: Benefit Structure 
3 Benefit Structure of the Product. [This section shall describe the various 
contingencies under which the benfits would be payable and how these 
would be determined-please do not refer to any other document which is 
enclosed along with this]  
Event:                                                                      Benefit Amount: 
3.1 On Hospitalization  
3.2  On events other than (3.1) – 
(please furnish the complete 
details separately in each row 
for all plans, covers, sections, 
Riders or Add-ons etc.) 
 
3.3 Deductibles allowed  
Whether Mandatory  Yes / No 
Mention details separately for each cover 
or option 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Name of the 
Cover or Plan or 
Option or  
Add-on or Rider 
Amount of Deductible@  % of Deductible@ 
 Min  Max Min  Max 
      
@Furnish the applicable information 
 
3.4 Co-pay allowed  
Whether Mandatory  Yes / No 
I

[Page 47]
Page 47 of 110 
 
Mention details separately for each cover 
or option 
 
Sl.No. Name of the 
Cover or Plan 
or Option or 
Rider or Add-
on 
Amount of Co-pay@  % of Co-pay@ 
 Min  Max Min  Max 
      
@Furnish the applicable information 
 
3.5 Sub-limits, if any (Mention 
separately for each Cover or 
Plan or Option or Rider or 
Add-on) 
 
Contingency Sub-Limits 
as a % of SI, 
if applicable 
Sub limits in 
fixed rupee 
terms, if 
applicable 
   
 
3.6 Whether cancellation (other 
than free-look) by the insured 
allowed: 
YES/NO 
3.6.1 If yes, Refund  payable on 
cancellation by the Insured 
Time of 
Cancella
tion 
Policy Duration  
(specify for each tenure of policy) 
One 
Year 
Two 
Year 
Three 
Year etc. 
    
 
3.6.2 Whether cancellation by the 
insurer allowed 
YES/NO 
3.6.3 If yes, Refunds, if any, 
payable on cancellation by 
the Insurer 
Time of 
Cancella
tion 
Policy Duration 
(specify for each tenure of policy) 
One 
Year 
Two 
Year 
Three 
Year etc. 
    
 
3.7 Specify Non -forfeiture 
conditions [When the contract 
would be not null and void] 
 
3.8 Specify options available 
under the product. (e.g. to 
increase or decrease 
benefits, plan changes, etc.) 
[This section should specify 
the various options available 
under the product.The 
charges , if any, towards the

[Page 48]
Page 48 of 110 
 
cost of the option shall also 
be specified. ] 
   
3.9 Furnish complete information on already approved ADD-ons, proposed to be 
attached with this product if any 
3.9.1 Add-ons attached to 
the product 
S.No Add-on 
Name 
UIN 
alloted by 
IRDAI 
Date of 
clearance 
    
    
3.9.2 Any other features 
that may be relevant 
for the product. 
 
 
3.9.3 How the Add -on  will 
benefit the insured if 
taken along with this 
product 
 
Section IV: Underwriting 
4 Underwriting –Selection of Risks [This section should discuss how the 
different segments of the population will be dealt with for the purpose of 
underwriting (to the extent they are relevant and a  brief detail  of procedure 
adopted for assessment  of various risk classes may be given.) 
4.1  Specify Non -medical Limit 
[Where no pre -medical 
examination is asked for] 
 
4.2  Specify when and what 
classes of lives would be 
subject to medical 
examination 
 
4.3 Whether any  loading based 
on the health status are 
applicable 
Yes / No 
4.4 Whether any  loading based 
on the occupation are 
applicable 
Yes / No 
4.5 Specify, any other 
underwriting criteria 
 
4.6 Whether Underwriting of the 
product aligned to the Board 
Approved Underwriting policy 
of the Company 
Yes / No 
4.7 Whether full costs of pre 
policy medical check up are 
borne by the Insurer 
Yes / No 
4.8 If no, specify the percentage 
proposed to be borne by the 
Insurer.

[Page 49]
Page 49 of 110 
 
4.9 Waiting Periods in days  
proposed, if any, for payment 
of benefits  
Name of Cover or 
Plan or Option 
Waiting Period (in 
Days) 
  
 
4.10 Survival Periods in days  
proposed, if any, for payment 
of benefits 
Name of Cover or 
Plan or Option 
Survival Period (in 
Days) 
  
 
4.11 Exclusions: please specify the 
permanent exclusions 
proposed for payment of 
benefits  
 
4.12 Time-bound Exclusions 
proposed for payment of 
benefits 
 
Section V - Other Terms 
5.1 Procedure for Renewal  
5.2 Conditions for 
reinstatement/revival of the 
contract, in case of 
installment premiums: 
 
5.3 Whether the proposal form 
proposed to be used for this 
product is already filed with 
the Authority 
Yes  / No 
5.4 If Yes, furnish the Unique 
Reference Number of the 
Proposal Form 
 
5.5 If No, attach the proposal 
form afresh as per  the 
applicable provisions of 
Product Filing procedure.  
 
Section VI - Distribution Channels 
6  Distribution channels: 
6.1 Specify the various 
distribution channels to 
be used for distributing 
the product- [reply shall 
be specific and can not 
refer to the replies like 
“as approved by IRDAI] 
 
6.1 Commission scales to 
distribution channels —
specify the rates which 
are to be paid -[reply 
shall be specific] 
 
6.2 Expected proportions of 
business  to be procured by 
each channel shall be 
indicated for the next 5 years. 
Distribution 
Channel 
 
Year 
1 
Year 
2 
Year 
3 
Year 
4 
Year 
5 
1.Individual 
Agents

[Page 50]
Page 50 of 110 
 
  2. Corporate 
Agents 
     
3. Insurance 
Brokers 
     
4.Web 
Aggregators 
 
     
5.Micro 
Insurance 
Agents 
     
6.CSC      
7.PoS      
8.Direct – 
Only Online 
     
9.Direct 
Marketing - 
Others 
     
(Incorporate 
separate line 
for each 
distribution 
channel) 
10. Others-
specify 
 
     
11. Total      
Section VII - Reinsurance arrangements 
7.1 Retention limit  
7.2 Name of the reinsurer (s)  
7.3 Terms of reinsurance(type of 
reinsurance, commissions, 
etc.). 
 
7.4 Any recapture provisions shall 
be described. 
 
7.5 Reinsurance rates provided  
7.6 Whether a copy of the 
reinsurance program and a 
copy of the Treaty is 
submitted to the Authority. 
 
Yes/No 
7.6.
1  
Whether reinsurance 
program and a copy of 
the treaty enclosed 
(required only if these 
are not filed with the 
Authority previously) 
Yes/No 
 7.6.
2 
Whether the reisurance 
proposed for the 
product is in line with 
the Board approved 
Yes / No

[Page 51]
Page 51 of 110 
 
reinsurance program 
filed with the Authority 
 7.6.
3 
If no, furnish the 
particulars 
 
Section VIII: Pricing 
8 Premium Loadings & Discounts 
(Please provide objective and transparent criteria to offer 
discounts/rebate/Loadings And c omplete financial justifications by AA to 
every item referred hereunder. 
In case of General and Health Insurers to be also furnished separately in the 
Technical Note) 
8.1 Sum insured 
rebates/discounts 
offered, if any  
 
8.2 Rebates/charges for 
different modes 
offered: 
 
8.3 Premium 
rebates/discounts  
 
8.4 Staff rebates  
8.5 Any other discounts 
offered  
 
8.6 Maximum cap on all 
Discounts for all 
variables taken 
together 
 
8.7 Any loadings proposed  
8.8 Maximum Cap on all 
Loading for all 
variables taken 
together 
 
8.9 Subrogation (Not 
applicable to Health 
Insurance) 
 
8.10 Pricing Assumptions and Methodology : The pricing assumptions and the 
methodology may vary depending on the nature of product. Give details of 
the following

[Page 52]
Page 52 of 110 
 
8.11  Give the actuarial formulae, if 
any, used; if not, state how 
premiums are arrived at 
briefly explaining the 
methodology and details: 
 
8.12 Source of data 
(internal/industry/ 
reinsurance) 
 
8.13 Rate of morbidity [The tables 
whereever relevant shall be 
the prescribed one.] 
 
8.14 Rates of policy terminations. 
[The rates used must be in 
accordance with insurer ’s 
experience. I f such 
experience is not available, 
this can be from the 
industry/reinsurer’s 
experience .] 
 
8.15 Rate of interest, if any. [The 
rate or rates must be 
consistent with the investment 
policy of the insurer.] 
 
8.16 Commission scales  [Give 
rates of commission. These 
are explicit items.] 
 
 
8.17 Expenses - Split into  First Year, Renewal and Claim related :- [Expense 
assumptions must be company specific. If such experience is not available, 
the Appointed Actuary might consider industry experience or make 
reasonable assumptions.] 
8.17
.1 
First Y ear expenses by: sum assured related, premium related, per 
policy related 
First Year 
Expenses 
sum assured 
related 
premium related per policy related 
    
8.17
.2 
Renewal expenses where relevant (including overhead expenses) by : 
sum assured related, premium related, per policy related 
Renewal 
Expenses 
sum assured 
related 
premium related per policy related 
    
8.17
.3 
Claim expenses

[Page 53]
Page 53 of 110 
 
 8.17
.4 
Future inflationary 
increases, if any 
8.18 Allowance for transfers to 
shareholder, if any: [Please 
see section 49 of the 
Insurance Act, 1938] 
 
8.19 Taxation. [Please see the 
relevant sections of the 
Income Tax Act, 1961 
applicable for payment of 
taxes by the Insurer] 
 
8.20 Any other parameter relevant 
to pricing of product – specify  
 
8.21 Reserving assumptions 
(please specify all the 
relevant details) 
 
8.22 Base rate (risk premium) -
furnish the rate table, if any 
 
8.23 Gross premium - furnish the 
rate table, if any 
 
8.24 Expected loss ratio (for the 
product) -to be furnished for 
each plan offered within the 
product separately 
 
8.25 Age-wise loss ratio - to be 
furnished for each option or 
plan offered within the 
product separately 
S.No Age  Loss ratio 
   
8.26 Sum insured -wise- loss ratio 
to be furnished for each  
option or plan offered within 
the product separately 
S.No SA Loss ratio 
   
8.27 Age and sum insured wise 
loss ratio - to be furnished for 
each option or  plan 
separately 
Table given below (SI band and age bands 
shall be increased / decreased depending on 
the minimum and maximum SI / Age offered)  
 S.NO SI/Age 
bands 
25000 50000 100000 150000 200000 
1 >=0<=2      
2 >=3<=15      
3 >=16<=25      
4 >=26<=30      
5 >=31<=35

[Page 54]
Page 54 of 110 
 
6 >=36<=40      
7 >=41<=45      
8 >=46<=50      
9 >=51<=55      
10 >=56<=60      
11 >=61<=65      
12 >=66      
8.28 Expected combined ratio (for 
the product) -to be furnished 
for each plan separately 
 
8.29 Age-wise combined ratio - to 
be furnished for each plan 
separately 
 
8.30 Sum insured -wise- combined 
ratio to be furnished for each 
plan separately 
 
8.31 Age and sum insured wise 
combined ratio - to be 
furnished for each option or 
plan separately 
Table given below (SI band and age bands 
shall be increased / decreased depending on 
the minimum and maximum SI /Age offered)  
 S.NO SI/Age 
bands 
25000 50000 100000 150000 200000 
1 >=0<=2      
2 >=3<=15      
3 >=16<=25      
4 >=26<=30      
5 >=31<=35      
6 >=36<=40      
7 >=41<=45      
8 >=46<=50      
9 >=51<=55      
10 >=56<=60      
11 >=61<=65

[Page 55]
Page 55 of 110 
 
12 >=66      
8.32 Expected cross-subsidy 
between age/sum insured/ 
plans etc 
 
8.33 Experience of similar 
products, if any for the 
preceding Five Financial 
Years 
 
 S.No Expos
ure 
Premi
um –
Rs. 
Numb
er of 
claims 
Incurr
ed 
claims
-Rs. 
Claim 
freque
ncy 
Avera
ge 
cost 
per 
claim 
Burni
ng 
cost-
Rs. 
Loss 
ratio 
Comb
ined 
ratio 
FY          
FY-1          
FY-2          
FY-3          
FY-4          
 1. Exposure: earned life year (no of life earned during a particular financial year); 
2. Premium: premium earned during the financial year; 
3.Number of claims: claims occurred during the financial year; 
4. Incurred claims: Incurred amount as of today for claims mentioned in “3”; 
5. Claim frequency: No. of claims/ Exposure; 
6. Average cost per claim: Incurred claims / No. of claims; 
7. Burning cost: Claims frequency* Average cost per claim; 
8. Loss ratio: Incurred claims/ Premium; 
9. Combined ratio: Loss ratio + Expense ratio; 
8.34 Whether principle of uniform 
spread of risk is taken into 
consideration while arriving 
the refunds payable on 
cancellation/termination of 
policy. Please substantiate 
with relevant data or 
assumptions 
 
8.35 Revision in pricing for existing products  (Submit separately as an 
Annexure, percentage difference between existing and modified 
premium rates for each rating factor) 
8.35.
1 
Whether there is an increase or 
decrease in the premiums  
Increase/Decrease/Increase in certain age 
groups only/Decrease in certain age groups 
I I I I I I

[Page 56]
Page 56 of 110 
 
only/NA 
8.35.
2 
 Justification for change/ 
modification in premium  
 
8.35.
3 
Experience of  the product across 
plans / sum insured / age bands  
In addition to the experience of similar 
products in Item 8.33, these tables to be 
furnished for the product for which revision in 
pricing is requested 
8.35.
4 
How the pricing methodology 
differs between sum insured 
options 
 
8.36 Results of Financial Projections/Sensitivity Analysis: [The profit margins 
should be shown for  various model  points  for base,optimistic and 
pessimistic scenarios  in a tabular format below. The definition of profit 
margin should be taken as the present value of net profits to the p.v of 
premiums. Please specify assumptions made in each scenario. For terms 
less than or equal to one year loss ratio may be used and for terms more 
than one year, profit margin may be used.] 
8.37 Risk discount rate used in the 
profit margin 
 
8.38  Average Sum Insured 
Assumed 
 
8.39 Assumptions made under 
pessimistic scenario 
 
8.40 Assumptions made under 
optimistic scenario 
 
8.41 Age     [PM: Profit 
Margin/Loss Ratio] [Age Band 
may be revisted based on the 
product design paratmeters] 
 
PM (base 
scenario) 
PM 
(pessimistic 
scenario) 
PM (optimistic 
scenario) 
>=0<=2    
>=3<=15    
>=16<=25    
>=26<=30    
>=31<=35    
>=36<=40    
>=41<=45    
>=46<=50    
>=51<=55

[Page 57]
Page 57 of 110 
 
>=56<=60    
>=61<=65    
>=66    
 Section IX: Enclosures to F&U Application: 
The following specimen documents should be enclosed:  
  
9.1  Sales Literature /Prospectus. This is the  literature which is to be used by the 
various distribution channels  for selling the produc in the market. This shall  
enumerate all the  salient features of the product alongwith the exclusions  
applicable for the basic benefits and shall be incomplaince with the relevant 
circulars issued by the Authority at all times). 
9.2 Policy Document & Policy Schedule: 
9.3 Technical Note on Pricing (Not applicable to Life Insurers): 
9.4 Proposal form, wherever necessary 
9.5 Premium Table  
9.6 Certificates by Appointed Actuary and Chief Compliance Officer 
9.7 Product Check List with due certification by Chief Compliance Officer 
9.8 Certificate of Insurance, where applicable 
9.9 CIS 
 
Soft ware used for product design and monitoring --- (for information of the Authority) 
The Insurer shall enclose a certificate from the Chief Compliance Officer, Appointed 
Actuary, countersigned by the principal officer of the insurer,  as per specimen given 
below: (The  language of this should not be altered) 
Certification by Chief Compliance Officer:  
I------- (Name of Chief Complian ce Officer) the undersigned, on behalf of the Insurer named 
below, hereby affirm and declare as follows: 
1. That the details of the                              (Name of product) filled in above are true 
and correct and reflect what the policy and other documents indicate. 
2. That the product complies with the various provisions of the IRDA I Health Insurance 
Regulations, 2016, Guidelines on Standardization of Health Insurance, Product Filing 
issued thereon and the applicable provisions of extant IRDA I Regulations and all 
circulars issued by IRDAI from time to time. 
3. That the File and Use application and all other documents are complete and have 
been verified for correctness and consistency not only in respect of each item of 
each document but also vis-a-vis one another. 
4. I certify that the policy wordings filed along with file and use application is in 
compliance with IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, 2016 , Product Filing 
Guidelines and Guidelines on Standardization of Health Insurance issued thereon.

[Page 58]
Page 58 of 110 
 
5. I further ce rtify, that the Prospectus submitted is in compliance with the applicable 
provisions of Rules, IRDAI Regulations and Guidelines on Product Filing and 
Insurance Advertisements.   
 
Date:        (Chief Compliance Officer) 
                                                                                                Name of Insurer: 
Certification by Appointed Actuary:  
" I, ( name of the appointed actuary ), the appointed actuary, hereby solemnly 
declare that the information furnished in this Application Form   is true.  I also certify 
that, in my opinion, the premium rates, advantages, terms and conditions of the 
above product are workable and sound, the assumptions are reasonable and 
premium rates are fair." 
 
I have carefully studied the requirements of the Product Filing Procedure in relation 
to the design and rating of insurance products.  
 
The rates, terms and conditions of the above mentioned product are determined on 
technically sound basis and are sustain able on the basis of the information and 
claims experience available in the records of the insurer.  
An adequate system has been put in place for collection of data on premiums and 
claims based on every rating factor that will enable review of the rates an d terms of 
the cover from time to time. It is planned to review the rates, terms and conditions of 
cover (--- mention periodicity of review) based on emerging experience. 
It is further certified that the underwriting of the product now filed shall be withi n the 
Board approved underwriting philosophy of the Company.   
The requirements of the Product Filing Procedure have been fully complied with in 
respect of this product or revision or modification of the product.  
I further declare that except the Sections  mentioned in S.No., no other 
feature/benefit/clause is modified in the product (applicable only for revision or 
modification of the product) 
 
 
Place                                  Signature of the Appointed Actuary 
Date:

[Page 59]
Page 59 of 110 
 
Certification by Principal Officer or CEO 
 
I (name of the Principal Officer or CEO), (mention designation) hereby confirm that: 
 
1. The rates, terms and conditions of the above-mentioned product filed with this certificate 
have been determined in compliance with the IRDA Act, 1999, Insurance Act, 1938, and 
the Regulations and guidelines issued there under, including the File and Use / Product 
Filing guidelines. 
 
2. The prospectus, sales literature, policy and endorsement documents, and the rates, terms 
and conditions of the product have been prepared on a technically sound basis and on 
terms that are fair between the insurer and the client and are set out in language that is 
clear and unambiguous. 
 
3. These documents are also fully in compliance with the underwriting and rating policy 
approved by the Board of Directors of the insurer. 
 
4. The statements made in the filing Form IRDAI - FNUHIP are true and correct. 
 
5. The requirements of the Product Filing Guidelines have been fully complied with in 
respect of this product. 
 
Date:     Signature of Principal Officer or Designated Officer 
Place:                                                 Name and designation along with Company’s seal

[Page 60]
Page 60 of 110 
 
Annexure - 2 
File and Use Application for Filing Health Package or Non-Life Package Products or 
Add-ons Offered by Health or General Insurers  
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS: 
a. Insurers shall use this form for filing of Health package or Non -Life Package 
products where already app roved Health, Travel and Accident Products  or Add-
ons are made part of the Health or Non-Life Package Product.  
b. This form is applicable only when already approved products are packaged and 
when no change in terms, conditions or price are made.  
c. All items in the Form must be furnished with the relevant details.  
d. Forms along with the necessary enclosures mentioned here in shall be furnished. 
 
Note: This form CANNOT be used if Insurers wish to file package products 
incorporating changes in products already approved by the Authority. In such 
case, the filing needs to be made as required under Guidelines on Product 
Filing for Health Insurance Products.  
 
File and Use Application form for ‘Health Package ’ or ‘Non-Life Package 
Products’ offered by General Insurers: 
 
FORM: IRDAI – FnUNLHP 
S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by insurer) 
1 Name of  Health or  General 
Insurer  
2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI  
3 Name of the proposed Package 
Product  
4 Date of approval by PMC  
6 Particulars of  existing Health  or 
Non Life  Product(s) which is 
made part of the proposed 
package product 
S.No UIN and Dt of 
Approval 
Approved Brand 
name of the product 
   
   
 
7 Name of the approved  sections 
as included in the proposed 
package product  (applicable 
where only a section is 
packaged):  
S.N
o 
UIN Approved 
Brand name 
of the 
product 
Approved 
Section 
    
 
7 Justification for packaging the

[Page 61]
Page 61 of 110 
 
products / Add-ons  
8 Whether the products being 
packaged have any overlapping 
covers or sections? 
Yes/No 
8.1 If yes, please justify the 
packaging of these covers or 
sections. 
S.N
o 
Overlapping 
covers 
/sections 
Justificatio
n for 
packaging 
the same  
Treatment 
when claim 
arises under 
the said 
section/cover 
    
    
    
 
9 Enclosures to the Application: 
(1) Copy of Approval Letter of 
the respective products or 
Add-ons proposed to be 
packaged. 
 
 
10 Any other information   
 
Certification: The Insurer shall enclose a certificate from the Appointed 
Actuary, countersigned by the principal officer of  the insurer,  as per 
specimen given below: (The  language of this should not be altered) 
" This is to certify that we have not altered any of the features, terms, conditions, 
policy wordings and the price of the existing approved products.  We further 
undertake that the combined proposal and combined  policy wording and schedule 
for the package policy shall include all the features of both these products.   
 
This is further to certify that the section ------- (specify name of the section) proposed 
to be packaged has an independent premium rate approved under UIN ------. 
(Applicable where a section is proposed to be packaged) 
 
 
Place    Signature of the Appointed Actuary 
Date: 
 
Name and Counter Signature of the Principal O fficer  along with name, and 
Company’s seal.

[Page 62]
Page 62 of 110 
 
Annexure - 3 
Application Form for Filing of Health Plus Life Combi Products/Riders Offered by  
Life or Health or General Insurers  
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS: 
a. Insurers shall use this form for filing of Health plus Life Combi -products when 
already approved products are integrated as Health plus Life Combi -product 
without making any change in terms, conditions or price in either of the approved 
products.   
b. All items in the Form must be furnished with the relevant details.  
c. Forms along with the necessary enclosures shall be furnished, but NOT in 
piecemeal. 
 
Note: This form CANNOT be used if Insurers wish to file Health plus Life 
products incorporating changes in alr eady approved products. In such case, 
the filing needs to be made separately as per extant Guidelines on Product 
Filing in Health Insurance Business or F&U Procedure of  Life Products 
respectively.  
 
File and Use Application form for ‘Health Plus Life Combi Products’ offered by 
Life , Health and General Insurers: 
 
Form IRDAI – FNU-HPLCombi 
S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by insurer) 
1 Name of General/Health Insurer  
2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI  
3 Name of the Life Insurer  
4 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI  
5 Name of the proposed Health 
Plus Life Combi-Product 
 
5.1 Name of the Lead Insurer  
6 Proposed date of introduction of 
Health Plus Life Combi-Product 
DD/MM/YYYY 
7 Memorandum of Understanding (MoU): 
7.1 Whether MOU filed with the 
Authority? 
Date of Filing: dd/mm/yyyy 
 
7.1.1 Furnish a Copy of MoU  
7.2 Period for which the MOU is 
agreed upon for the purpose of 
promoting ‘Combi Products ”? 
(Specify the dates) 
From: DD/MM/YYYY 
To: DD/MM/YYYY 
8 Product related Information:

[Page 63]
Page 63 of 110 
 
8.1 Names of the existing approved 
Health/Life Products which are 
made part of the proposed 
Health Plus Life Combi-Product 
 
 
 
 
Product 
offered by 
Name of the 
approved 
product 
UIN Date of 
Approval 
by IRDAI 
Health/ 
General 
Insurer 
   
Life Insurer    
 
8.2 Whether the product is proposed 
to be offered to  Groups or 
Individuals? 
Group/Individual 
8.3 Whether the Health Insurance is 
offered on Family Floater basis 
YES/NO 
8.4 If YES, whether life insurance 
coverage is allowed on the life of 
proposer who shall be an 
earning member of the family 
only? 
YES/NO 
8.5 Whether the product offered by 
General/Health Insurer is 
Medical /Sickness/ Health 
cover?  
 
8.6 Whether Premium Component 
of both the risks are separately 
identifiable? 
 
8.7 Whether the premium 
component of both the risks 
disclosed separately to the 
policyholders in Policy 
Document and Prospectus/Sales 
literature? 
 
8.8 Whether ‘Free Look Period ’ 
option is provided to the ‘Combi 
Product’ as a whole? 
 
9 Other Information: 
9.1 Distribution Channel wise 
maximum commission allowed 
under the Combi Product 
Distribution 
Channel 
Maximum 
Commission (as 
% of premium) 
 Life Health 
  
  
  
  
Others  
 
9.2 Whether Operation procedures 
put in place for updating 
premium on policy data on a real 
time basis in respect of the 
product under consideration? 
 
I

[Page 64]
Page 64 of 110 
 
9.3 Specify the options available to 
policyholders of ‘Combi 
Products’ to discontinue either 
portion of risk coverage while 
continuing with the other portion, 
subject to the extant law, 
regulations, guidelines etc. 
 
9.4 Whether the above options are 
disclosed in Policy Document, 
Prospectus and Sales 
Literature? 
 
9.5 Whether the Prospectus and 
Policy Document specify the 
scope for withdrawal of tie -up 
between the two Insurer?  
 
9.6 Whether provision of 90 days 
notice period in case of 
withdrawal of tie -up mentioned 
in the Prospectus and Policy 
Document? 
 
9.7 Specify the options available to 
policyholders of ‘Combi 
Products’ upon withdrawal of tie-
up between the two Insurers 
 
9.8 Whether the options available to 
the policyholders of ‘Combi 
Products’ upon withdrawal of tie-
up between the two Insurers 
specified in the Prospectus and 
Policy Document?  
 
9.9 Whether cost -benefit analysis 
carried out by both the insurers? 
YES/NO 
9.10 If YES, whether any discount 
being offered on the premium in 
the combi-product? 
YES/NO 
9.11 If Yes, whether discount is 
offered on Life Product or Health 
Product or Both 
Life/Health/Both 
9.11.
1 
Submit the relevant technical 
note by Appointed Actuary 
 
9.12 If Yes, specify the Discount on 
Health portion of the Product 
with objective criteria. 
Rate of Discount Objective Criteria 
  
  
 
9.13 If Yes, specify the Discount on 
Life portion of the Product with 
objective criteria. 
Rate of Discount Objective Criteria 
  
  
 
9.14 Whether the discount is 
disclosed in Policy document & 
prospectus? 
YES/NO 
9.15 Whether Mandatory minimum

[Page 65]
Page 65 of 110 
 
disclosures are made in the 
Policy Document? 
10 Date of approval by PMC of lead 
Insurer 
dd/mm/yyyy 
10.1 Date of approval by PMC of 
other Insurer 
dd/mm/yyyy 
 
Certification -1: The Insurer shall enclose a certificate from the Appointed Actuary 
countersigned by the principal officer of the lead insurer,  as per specimen given 
below: (The  language of this should not be altered) 
"This is to certify that the Life or Health portion (strike off whichever is not applicable) of the 
proposed Combi product --- (Name of Combi Product) is the product approved by the 
Authority and we have not altered any of the features, terms, conditions a nd the price of the 
existing approved product . However, owing to the benefits of combining the products, a 
discount of --- is proposed to be offered after actuarial evaluation.”.   
 
 
Place       Signature of the Appointed Actuary 
Date: 
 
Name and countersignature of the Principal Officer of the Lead Insurance Company 
The Insurer shall also enclose a certificate from the Appointed Actuary of the other 
insurer (other than lead insurer),  as per specimen given below: (The  language of this 
should not be altered) 
"This is to certify that the Life or Health portion (strike off whichever is not applicable) of the 
proposed Combi product --- (Name of Combi Product) is the product approved by the 
Authority and we have not altered any of the features, terms, conditions and the price of the 
existing approved product . However, owing to the benefits of combining the products, a 
discount of --- is proposed to be offered after actuarial evaluation.”.   
 
Place                                           Signature of the Appointed Actuary 
Date:    Name of the Appointed Actuary of the Other Insurance Company 
 
                                     
 
Certification by Chief Compliance Officer of Lead Insurer on Mandatory minimum 
disclosures: 
 
" This is to certify that all the  mandatory minimum disclosures have been made in the Policy 
document, Prospectus and proposal  form of the Health plus Life Combi -product as per 
extant Regulations and Guidelines.”   
 
Place      Signature of Chief Compliance Officer 
Date:

[Page 66]
Page 66 of 110 
 
Annexure - 4 
Application Form for Filing of Group Health Insurance Products offered by Health or 
General Insurers under Use and File Procedure 
(Not applicable to Life Insurers) 
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS: 
a. THIS FORM IS APPLICABLE TO ALL HEALTH AND GENERAL INSURERS 
REGISTERED WITH INSURANCE REGULATORY AND DEVELOPMENT 
AUTHORITY OF INDIA FOR CONDUCTING HEALTH INSURANCE BUSINESS 
IN INDIA FOR FILING INFORMATION ON GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE 
PRODUCTS UNDER CHAPTER - IV OF GUIDELINES ON PRODUCT FILING 
IN HEALTH INSURANCE BUSINESS. 
b.  An In surer wishing to introduce a new Group Health Insurance product (other 
than Government Sponsored Scheme) shall submit an application to the 
Authority in this Form within seven days from the date of approval by the Product 
Management Committee (PMC) and obt ain an UIN. Any group policy issued 
under this product shall be in total compliance with the product filed under this 
form. Where any modifications or changes are proposed to customise the 
requirements of the policyholders, such product shall be treated as  a new group 
insurance product and shall follow the norms specified herein for obtaining a 
fresh UIN.     
c. For every Group Health Insurance Product filed under these Use & File 
Guidelines, the Insur er shall furnish Annual Return in Form  – IRDAI – GHISAR 
within 60 days from the close of every Financial Year.  
d. Insurers shall maintain the records such as proposal form, internal notes, details 
of quotation given and details of acceptance, details premium worksheet along 
with the basis for working including previ ous claims details, Policy Schedule, list 
of named beneficiaries wherever applicable etc with respect to every policy 
issued for a minimum period of 5 years from the expiry of every Policy issued 
under this Product. Insurers must also justify the rates and  terms including 
discounts given to any group to the Authority, if called upon to do so.   
e. Insurer shall also maintain the ICR of every policy issued to the Groups.  
f. The existing Insurer receiving request from any other insurer shall furnish the 
information related to ICR of the Group for the policy years serviced by it (for a 
maximum period of 5 policy years) within 07 working days from the date of such 
request.   
g. All items in the Forms must be furnished with the relevant details.  
h. All the enclosures as specified shall be furnished together, but not in piecemeal.

[Page 67]
Page 67 of 110 
 
Use & File Application form for ‘Group Health Insurance Products’ 
offered by Health or General Insurers 
 
FORM – IRDAI – UnF HLTGRP 
S No Item Particulars (to be filled by the 
Insurer) 
Section I: General Information 
1.1 Name of Health or General 
Insurer 
 
1.2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI  
1.3 Name of the Group Health 
Insurance Product 
 
1.4 Date of approval by the PMC  
1.5 Whether the Product is launched? Yes / No 
1.6 If yes, Date of Launching of the 
Product 
DD/MM/YYYY 
1.7 If no, proposed date of launching  DD/MM/YYYY 
 
1.8 Whether Product is catered to the 
Social Sector 
Yes / No 
Section II: Details of the Product 
2.1 Type of Coverage Indemnity Yes/No 
Benefit Yes/No 
Both Indemnity  & 
Benefit 
Individual 
Floater 
Yes/No 
 
Yes/No 
Yes/No 
 
2.2   Structure of Base Cover offered in the Product:

[Page 68]
Page 68 of 110 
 
S.No Name of 
the 
Benefit  
Whether 
Deductibl
e allowed 
If yes, range of 
Deductible 
Whether 
Co-Pay 
allowed 
If yes, range of Co -
Pay 
  Yes/ 
No 
Minimum Maximu
m 
Yes/ 
No 
Minimu
m 
Maximu
m 
 
2.3 Any sub limits imposed Yes / No 
 Details of sub limits imposed in the following format  (furnish separately for 
each option or plan of the group insurance product) 
Name of Option or Plan: 
Type of 
Benefit for 
which sub 
limit is 
imposed 
Sub Limit in absolute terms 
(in INR) 
Sub Limit as a percentage 
Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum 
 
2.4 Sum Insured offered Minimum(Rs.) Maximum (Rs.) 
  
 
2.5 Whether any Add ons offered Yes / No 
2.6 If yes, Number of Add ons offered  
 Details of Add ons Offered 
Nam
e of 
Add 
on 
 
Sum 
Assured 
Deductible Co-Pay Sub Limit  
 Min Max Min Max Min Max Min Max  
  
2.7 Number of Options or plans Offered  
 Details of Options Offered 
Nam
e  
 
Sum 
Assured 
Deductible Co-Pay Sub Limit

[Page 69]
Page 69 of 110 
 
 Min Max Min Max Min Max Min Max  
 
2.8 Minimum membership of the Group  
2.9 Target Group Employer-Employee 
Non-Employer-Employee 
Social Sector 
Others (Please specify) 
 
2.10 Expected ICR  
2.11 Whether a Board approved 
underwriting policy is in place with 
respect to this Group Health 
Insurance Product?  
 
2.12 If yes, date of filing with the 
Authority 
 
2.13 Whether the Underwriting mandates 
considering previous claims 
experience of the Group for pricing 
the Scheme? 
 
2.14 Whether Loadings are allowed Yes / No 
2.15 Specify the objective criteria basis 
which loadings are levied 
 
2.16 Details of Loadings  
 
Criteria In Absolute Terms (INR), if 
applicable 
In Percentage, if applicable 
 Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum 
 
2.16.1 What is the maximum cap on 
Loadings 
 
2.17 Whether Discounts are allowed Yes / No 
2.18 Specify the objective criteria basis 
which discounts are allowed 
 
I I I I I I I 
I I

[Page 70]
Page 70 of 110 
 
2.19 Details of Discounts  
 
Criteria In Absolute Terms (INR), if 
applicable 
In Percentage, if applicable 
 Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum 
 
2.19.1 What is maximum cap on Discounts  
2.19.2 Any additional information 
concerning Loadings and Discounts 
 
2.20 Whether system is in place to 
ensure that the underwriting 
procedure laid down for the Product 
is followed? 
 
2.21 Any wellness or preventive elements 
offered 
Yes/No (If Yes Give complete details as 
an annexure) 
Section III: Reinsurance arrangements: 
3.1 Retention limit  
3.2 Name of the reinsurer(s)  
3.3 Terms of reinsurance (type of 
reinsurance, commissions, etc 
 
3.4 Any recapture provisions shall be 
described 
 
3.5 Reinsurance rates provided  
3.6 Whether a copy of the reinsurance 
program and a copy of the Treaty is 
submitted to the Authority 
 
Section IV: Pricing: 
4 Premium Loadings & Discounts 
(Please provide objective and transparent criteria to offer 
discounts/rebate/Loadings And complete financial justifications by AA to 
every item referred hereunder. 
In case of General and Health Insurers to be also furnished separately 
in the Technical Note) 
I I

[Page 71]
Page 71 of 110 
 
4.1  Sum insured 
rebates/discounts 
offered, if any  
 
4.2  Rebates/charges for 
different modes 
offered: 
 
4.3  Premium 
rebates/discounts  
 
4.4  Staff rebates  
4.5  Any other discounts 
offered  
 
4.9 
 Subrogation (Not 
applicable to Health 
Insurance) 
 
4.10 Pricing Assumptions and Methodology: The pricing assumptions and 
the methodology may vary depending on the nature of product. Give 
details of the following 
4.11  Give the actuarial 
formulae, if any, used; if 
not, state how premiums 
are arrived at briefly 
explaining the methodology 
and details: 
 
4.12 Source of data 
(internal/industry/ 
reinsurance) 
 
4.13 Rate of morbidity [The 
tables whereever relevant 
shall be the prescribed 
one.] 
 
4.14 Rates of policy 
terminations. [The rates 
used must be in 
accordance with insurer ’s 
experience. I f such 
experience is not available, 
this can be from the 
industry/reinsurer’s 
experience .] 
 
4.15 Rate of interest, if any. [The 
rate or rates must be 
consistent with the

[Page 72]
Page 72 of 110 
 
investment policy of the 
insurer.] 
4.16 Commission scales  [Give 
rates of commission. These 
are explicit items.] 
 
 
4.17 Expenses - Split into First Year, Renewal and Claim related :- [Expense 
assumptions must be company specific. If such experience is not 
available, the Appointed Actuary might consider industry experience or 
make reasonable assumptions.] 
4.17.1 First Year expenses by: sum assured related, premium related, 
per policy related 
First Year 
Expenses 
sum assured 
related 
premium 
related 
per policy 
related 
    
4.17.2 Renewal expenses where relevant (including overhead expenses) 
by : sum assured related, premium related, per policy related 
Renewal 
Expenses 
sum assured 
related 
premium 
related 
per policy 
related 
    
4.17.3 Claim expenses 
 4.17.4 Future inflationary 
increases, if any 
4.18 Allowance for transfers to 
shareholder, if any: [Please 
see section 49 of the 
Insurance Act, 1938] 
 
4.19 Taxation. [Please see the 
relevant sections of the 
Income Tax Act, 1961 
applicable for payment of 
taxes by the Insurer] 
 
4.20 Any other parameter 
relevant to pricing of 
product – specify  
 
4.21 Reserving assumptions 
(please specify all the 
relevant details) 
 
4.22 Base rate (risk premium) -
furnish the rate table, if any 
 
4.23 Gross premium- furnish the 
rate table, if any 
 
4.24 Expected loss ratio (for the 
product) -to be furnished for

[Page 73]
Page 73 of 110 
 
each plan offered within the 
product separately 
4.25 Age-wise loss ratio - to b e 
furnished for each option or 
plan offered within the 
product separately 
S.No Age  Loss ratio 
   
4.26 Sum insured -wise- loss 
ratio to be furnished for 
each option or plan offered 
within the product 
separately 
S.No SA Loss ratio 
   
4.27 Age and sum  insured wise 
loss ratio - to be furnished 
for each  option or  plan 
separately 
Table given below (SI band and age 
bands shall be increased  / decreased  
depending on the minimum and maximum 
SI / Age offered)  
 S.N
O 
SI/Age 
bands 
25000 50000 100000 150000 200000 
1 >=0<=2      
2 >=3<=15      
3 >=16<=25      
4 >=26<=30      
5 >=31<=35      
6 >=36<=40      
7 >=41<=45      
8 >=46<=50      
9 >=51<=55      
10 >=56<=60      
11 >=61<=65      
12 >=66      
4.28 Expected combined ratio 
(for the product) -to be 
furnished for each plan 
separately 
 
4.29 Age-wise combined ratio- to 
be furnished for each plan 
separately 
 
4.30 Sum insured -wise- 
combined ratio to be

[Page 74]
Page 74 of 110 
 
furnished for each plan 
separately 
4.31 Age and sum insured wise 
combined ratio - to be 
furnished for each option or 
plan separately 
Table given below (SI band and age 
bands shall be increased  / decreased  
depending on the minimum and maximum 
SI /Age offered)  
 S.NO SI/Age 
bands 
25000 50000 100000 150000 200000 
1 >=0<=2      
2 >=3<=15      
3 >=16<=25      
4 >=26<=30      
5 >=31<=35      
6 >=36<=40      
7 >=41<=45      
8 >=46<=50      
9 >=51<=55      
10 >=56<=60      
11 >=61<=65      
12 >=66      
4.32 Expected cross-subsidy 
between age/sum insured/ 
plans etc 
 
4.33 Experience of similar 
products, if any for the 
preceding Five Financial 
Years 
 
 S.No Expo
sure 
Pre
miu
m –
Rs. 
Num
ber 
of 
claim
s 
Incur
red 
claim
s-Rs. 
Clai
m 
frequ
ency 
Aver
age 
cost 
per 
claim 
Burni
ng 
cost-
Rs. 
Loss 
ratio 
Com
bine
d 
ratio 
FY          
FY-1          
FY-2          
FY-3          
FY-4

[Page 75]
Page 75 of 110 
 
 1. Exposure: earned life year (no of life earned during a particular financial 
year); 
2. Premium: premium earned during the financial year; 
3.Number of claims: claims occurred during the financial year; 
4. Incurred claims: Incurred amount as of today for claims mentioned in “3”; 
5. Claim frequency: No. of claims/ Exposure; 
6. Average cost per claim: Incurred claims / No. of claims; 
7. Burning cost: Claims frequency* Average cost per claim; 
8. Loss ratio: Incurred claims/ Premium; 
9. Combined ratio: Loss ratio + Expense ratio; 
4.34 Whether principle of 
uniform spread of risk is 
taken into consideration 
while arriving the refunds 
payable on 
cancellation/termination of 
policy. Please substantiate 
with relevant data or 
assumptions 
 
4.35 Revision in pricing for existing products  (Submit separately as an 
Annexure, percentage difference between existing and modified 
premium rates for each rating factor) 
4.35.
1 
Whether there is an increase or 
decrease in the premiums  
Increase/Decrease/Increase in certain 
age groups only/Decrease in certain age 
groups only/NA 
4.35.
2 
 Justification for change/ 
modification in premium  
 
4.35.
3 
Experience of  the product 
across plans / sum insured / 
age bands  
In addition to the experience of similar 
products in Item 4.33, these tables to be 
furnished for the product for which 
revision in pricing is requested 
4.35.
4 
How the pricing methodology 
differs between sum insured 
options 
 
4.36 Results of Financial Projections/Sensitivity Analysis: [The profit 
margins should be shown for  various model  points  for base,optimistic 
and pessimistic scenarios  in a tabular format below. The definition of 
profit margin should be taken as the present value of net profits to the 
p.v of premiums. Please spe cify assumptions made in each scenario. 
For terms less than or equal to one year loss ratio may be used and for

[Page 76]
Page 76 of 110 
 
terms more than one year, profit margin may be used.] 
4.37 Risk discount rate used in 
the profit margin 
 
4.38  Average Sum Insured 
Assumed 
 
4.39 Assumptions made under 
pessimistic scenario 
 
4.40 Assumptions made under 
optimistic scenario 
 
4.41 Age     [PM: Profit 
Margin/Loss Ratio] [Age 
Band may be revisted 
based on the product 
design paratmeters] 
 
PM (base 
scenario) 
PM 
(pessimistic 
scenario) 
PM 
(optimistic 
scenario) 
>=0<=2    
>=3<=15    
>=16<=25    
>=26<=30    
>=31<=35    
>=36<=40    
>=41<=45    
>=46<=50    
>=51<=55    
>=56<=60    
>=61<=65    
>=66    
 
Section IV: Documents to be submitted

[Page 77]
Page 77 of 110 
 
25 Documents Submitted: 
 
 
S.No Name of the 
Document 
Yes/No 
1 Policy Wordings , 
Policy Schedule 
and Certificate of 
Insurance 
 
2 Underwriting Policy 
applicable to the 
Product 
 
3 Rating Chart  
4 Technical Note  
(Where modification of the pricing of the Group Product is proposed, Submit 
separately as an Annexure, percentage difference between existing and 
modified premium rates for each rating factor) 
Certification. The Insurer shall enclose a certificate from the  Appointed 
Actuary, Chief Compliance Officer, countersigned by the principal officer of 
the insurer,  as per specimen given below:  (The  language of this should not 
be altered) 
CERTIFICATE BY APPOINTED ACTUARY: 
" I, ( name of the appointed actuary ), the appointed actuary, hereby solemnly 
declare that the information furnished above  is true.  I also certify that, in my 
opinion, the premium rates, advantages, terms and conditions of the above product 
are workable and sound, the assumptions are reasonable and premium rates are fair 
and the rates proposed are viable.  It is further to confirm that the product is in 
compliance with Health Insurance Regulations, 2016 and norms specified in Product 
Filing Procedure." 
 
 
Place       Signature of the Appointed Actuary 
Date: 
 
CERTIFICATE BY CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER: 
I ------ (Name of CCO) hereby solemnly declare that the information filed in respect 
of the above Group Insurance Product is as cleared by PMC and being marketed

[Page 78]
Page 78 of 110 
 
without any variation. We undertake to file the product afresh if there is any variation 
in the product filed above.   
 
 
Signature of the Chief Compliance Officer 
 
Place       
Date: 
 
Name and Counter Signature of the principal officer  along with name, and  
Company’s seal.

[Page 79]
Page 79 of 110 
 
Annexure - 5 
Application Form for Filing of Government Sponsored Health Insurance Schemes 
offered by Life or Health or General Insurers  
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS: 
a. Insurers shall use this form for filing of a Government sponsored Health 
Insurance Schemes 
b. An Insurer shall file a Government sponsored Health Insurance Scheme within 
15 days from the date of award of tender or date of MoU, whichever is earlier, in 
the Format prescribed. 
c. Section (IV) is applicable f or Extension of an existing Scheme and Section (V) is 
applicable for subsequent award of Tender of an existing Scheme in a different 
geographic location. 
d. For every Scheme filed under these Guidelines, the Insurance Company shall 
furnish Annual Return in Form IRDAI – GHIS within 60 days from the close of the 
Financial Year.  
e. All items in the Format must be furnished with relevant details.  
f. All the enclosures as specified shall be furnished together, but not in piecemeal. 
 
Use and File Application form for ‘Government Sponsored Health Insurance 
Schemes’ offered by either Life  or Health or General Insurers 
 
FORM – IRDAI-UNF-GOVTHLT 
S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by insurer) 
 Section I: General Information 
1.1 Name of Life or Health or General 
Insurer 
 
1.1.1 Names of Other Insurers (where 
Insurer referred at 1.1 above is the 
lead insurer) 
 
1.2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI  
1.2.1 Registration No. alloted by IRDAI to 
other insurers 
 
1.3 Name of the Scheme  
1.4 Whether this is a Government 
Sponsored Scheme? (If yes, 
specify the Department, if 
sponsored by Central 
Government. In case of State 
Government, specify the State.)

[Page 80]
Page 80 of 110 
 
State/ Central 
Govt. 
Department Name of State if 
sponsored by 
State Govt. 
Name of the 
Corresponding District / 
Geographic Unit  (to be 
furnished where entire 
state is not awarded) 
    
 
1.5 Date of award of Tender for the 
first time 
 
1.6 Whether Premium is subsidized by 
Government 
Yes / No 
1.6.1 If yes furnish the following 
information with regard to the share 
of the premium subsidized 
 
 Premium 
Subsidy 
Central Govt 
/ Dept 
State Govt Others (like 
Local Govt 
Municipality) 
Beneficiary 
In absolute 
terms 
    
In 
Percentage 
    
 
   
1.7 Whether Claim is subsidized by 
Government 
 
1.7.1 If yes furnish the following 
information with regard to the share 
of the Claim subsidized 
 
 Claim 
Subsidy 
Central Govt 
/ Dept 
State Govt Others (like 
Local Govt 
Municipality) 
Beneficiary 
In absolute 
terms 
    
In 
Percentage

[Page 81]
Page 81 of 110 
 
1.8 Whether the scheme is launched? Yes / No 
1.8.1 If yes, Date of Launching of the 
Scheme 
DD/MM/YYYY 
1.8.2 If no, Target Date of Launching / 
Implementation or Introduction of 
the Scheme 
DD/MM/YYYY 
 Section II: Details of the Scheme 
2.1 Whether the Scheme is in 
compliance with the provision of 
Section 64VB of Insurance Act? 
 
2.2 Whether the filing of the product as 
accepted is made within 15 days 
from the date of award of tender? 
(If No, give reasons for the delay) 
 
2.3 Whether a new product is 
designed to cover the tendered 
scheme 
Yes / No 
2.4 If Yes furnish the details of the 
scheme in the following format 
 
 Type of Policy Individual /  
Group 
Nature of 
Coverage 
Health 
Coverage / 
Personal 
Accident 
Minimum Sum 
Assured 
 
Maximum Sum 
Assured 
 
Minimum Age 
at Entry 
 
Maximum Age

[Page 82]
Page 82 of 110 
 
at Entry 
Benefit 
Coverage 
 
 
2.5 Whether an existing product of the 
insurer, which is approved by the 
Authority, is in total conformity with 
the proposed insurance scheme 
including the pricing?  
Yes / No 
2.5.1 If yes, specify UIN & Brand name 
as approved by the Authority. 
UIN: 
Brand Name: 
2.6 Specify the period of insurance for 
which the insurer is awarded the 
tender (in Months). 
 
 Section III: Pricing (to be furnished where new scheme is designed to 
cover the tender) 
3.1 Whether t he pricing of the 
schemes is based on the previous 
experience of such schemes 
offered by the insurer, if any;  If 
yes, give details 
 
3.2 Period for which price is 
guaranteed 
 
3.3 Method of computation of premium  
3.4 Sources of Data  
3.5 Assumptions made  
3.6 Loadings made

[Page 83]
Page 83 of 110 
 
3.7 Expected Loss Ratios for three 
succeeding years 
 
 
 
S.No Year Expected 
Loss Ratio 
  1  
  2   
  3  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
3.8 Expected Combined Ratios for 
three years S.No Year Expected 
Combined 
Ratio 
  1  
  2  
  3

[Page 84]
Page 84 of 110 
 
3.9 Expected Profit Margins for Three 
years) S.No Year  Expected 
Profit 
Margin 
  1  
  2   
  3  
Section IV: Extension of Existing Scheme 
4.1 Whether this is the first Extension? 
If no, specify whether  2nd / 3 rd 
Extension etc.  
 
4.1.1 Date of previous Extension  
4.2 Whether Extension awarded for all 
Geographic locations as per the 
last filed/approved Schemes?  
Yes / No 
4.3 If No, specify the geographic 
locations (Names of States or 
Districts / Geographic Unit as the 
case may be) now awarded in the 
following format 
 
4.4 Names of States  Name of geographic Unit of the 
state where scheme is awarded 
(Information to be furnished in 
separate line for each state and 
Geographic Unit) 
 
  
 
4.5 Whether any additional geographic 
locations awarded? 
Yes / No 
4.5.1 If Yes, specify the geographic 
locations (Names of States or 
Geographic Units as the case may 
be) now awarded in the following

[Page 85]
Page 85 of 110 
 
format 
 Names of States  Name of corresponding 
Geographic Units of the state 
where scheme is awarded 
Information to be furnished in 
separate line for each state and 
district 
 
  
 
4.6 Whether there is any change in the 
features of the Product? 
Yes / No 
4.6.1 If yes, specify the details of the 
changes made and furnish the 
information in Section III. 
 
4.7 Whether there is any difference in 
the pricing of the contract?  
Yes / No 
4.7.1 If yes, furnish the information in 
Section III. 
 
4.8 Loss Ratio for last Four Half Years 
at the scheme level 
Half Year Loss Ratio 
  
  
  
  
 
4.9 Geographic location (State and 
District) wise Loss Ratio for the 
last four financial years. 
 
 Name of State Name of District Fin. Year ending 
Period 
Loss Ratio 
    
 
4.10 Whether Loss ratio is more than 
90% for last 4 Half -Years 
consecutively?  
YES/NO

[Page 86]
Page 86 of 110 
 
4.10.1 If yes, Furnish the Assumed and 
actual Loss Ratios. 
Fin.Year 
Ending 
Period 
Loss Ratio 
assumed 
Actual 
Loss Ratio  
   
   
   
   
 
4.10.2 Actuarial Justification for variance 
as above 
 
Section V: Subsequent Award of Tender for different Areas  
5.1 Specify the details of all the places for which th e insurer is awarded the 
tender now in the following format. 
Names of States  Name of 
corresponding 
Districts / 
Geographical Unit of 
the state where 
scheme is awarded 
Duration for which the 
tender is awarded (in 
months) 
Information to be furnished 
in separate line for each 
state and district 
  
   
 
5.2 Specify the period for which the 
insurer is awarded the tender. 
dd/mm/yyyy  
to  
dd/mm/yyyy 
5.3 Whether there is any change in the 
features of the Product?  
Yes / No 
5.3.1 If yes, specify the details of the 
changes made. 
 
5.4 Whether there is any difference in 
the pricing of the contract?  
Yes / No

[Page 87]
Page 87 of 110 
 
5.4.1 If yes, furnish the information in 
Section III. 
 
5.5 Documents Submitted: 
 
 
S.N
o 
Name of the 
Document 
YES/N
O 
1 Policy Wordings  
2 Tender Document   
3 Tender Allotment 
Letter 
 
4 MoU with TPA  
5 Technical Note  
6 MoU with Govt  
Certification: The Insurer shall enclose a certificate from the Appointed Actuary, 
countersigned by the principal officer of the insurer,  in the following format : (The  language 
of this should not be altered) 
" I, (name of the appointed actuary ), the appointed actuary, hereby solemnly declare that 
the information furnished above  is true.  I also certify that, in my opinion, the premium rates, 
advantages, terms and conditions of the above product are workable and sound, the 
assumptions are reasonable and premium rates are fair and the rates proposed are viable." 
 
Place    Signature of the Appointed Actuary. 
Date: 
Name and Counter Signature of the principal officer  along with name, and 
Company’s seal.

[Page 88]
Page 88 of 110 
 
Annexure - 6 
Information to be furnished on Withdrawal of Health Insurance Products or Add-ons or 
Riders Offered by Life or Health or General Insurers  
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS: 
a. Insurers shall use the specified form for filing information about withdrawal of existing 
Health Insurance products or Add -ons or Riders. Format shall be used separately for 
each Product or Add-on or Rider.  
b. All items in the Form must be furnished with the relevant details.  
c. The form shall be filed within 30 days from the date of withdrawing the product.   
 
FORM: IRDAI – HPW 
S No Item Particulars (to be filled in by the Insurer) 
1 Name of Life or Health or 
General Insurer  
2 Registration No.alloted by IRDAI  
3 Name of Appointed Actuary 
[Please note that his/her 
appointment should be in force 
as on the date of this 
application] 
 
4 Product UIN:  
5 Brand Name of the Product as 
approved by the Authority  
6 Date of first approval of the 
product by IRDAI  
7 Date of launch of the Product  
8 Date(s) of approval of 
subsequent Revision/ 
modification of the product by 
IRDAI in chronological order. 
S.No Date of approval of 
subsequent Revision 
/Modification(s) 
  
 
9 Date of withdrawal of the 
product   
10 Date of approval of PMC for 
withdrawal of Product  
11 Financial year-wise business 
details of the product for the 
preceding three Financial Years 
(Data to be provided as on the 
immediate month-end preceding 
the date of this application) 
F
Y 
No. of 
Policies / 
Riders / 
Add-ons  
issued 
No. of 
Lives 
covere
d 
No. of 
Policies 
/Riders 
/ Add-
ons in 
force  
Gross 
Premium 
(Rs.)

[Page 89]
Page 89 of 110 
 
  
 
     
 
12 Expected loss ratio & Combined 
Ratio (for the product) vis-à-vis 
the incurred loss ratio & 
Combined Ratio ( Data to be 
furnished for each Financial 
Year)(Applicable only for Health 
and General Insurers) 
FY Loss Ratio % Combined Ratio% 
Expected  Actual Expected  Actual 
     
13 Justification for withdrawal of the 
product: 
 
Certification: The Insurer shall enclose a certificate from the Appointed Actuary,  Chief 
Compliance Officer and Principal Officer of the Company,  as per specimen given below:  
(The  language of this should not be altered) 
" I, (name of the appointed actuary), the appointed actuary, hereby solemnly declare that the 
information furnished above  is true.   
 
 
Place     
Date:       Name & Signature of the Appointed Actuary 
 
I (Name of Chief Compliance Officer), the Chief Compliance Officer, hereby solemnly 
declare that the Company will ensure compliance with the extant regulatory norms 
governing the withdrawal of the products.  
 
Place     
Date:      Name & Signature of the Chief Compliance Officer 
 
  
" This is to confirm that the information furnished above  is true. The Company shall comply 
with extant Regulations with regard to the obligations towards all the existing Policyholders. 
Further, a notice period of 90 days has been provided to every existing policyholder prior to 
withdrawal of the Product (Not applicable to Life Insurers).” 
 
 
 
 
Place      Name and Signature of the principal officer  
Date:         Company ’s seal 
. 
 
 
 
 
 
I I I I I I 
I I I I I I

[Page 90]
Page 90 of 110 
 
Annexure – 7 
Product Filing Check-List cum Certification 
FORM – IRDAI-HLT-CLC 
(Refer File and Use Application) 
I General & Product Type Details Remarks 
 
1. Name of the Insurance Co   
2. Name of the Product Filed   
3. Date of Filing   
4. Proposed Date of Launching of 
the product 
  
5. New/Revision/Add-On   
5.i If revision, no. of revisions 
made so far with dates of 
approval: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
 
  
6. UIN   
7. Whether Product is meant for 
any specific group/geographical 
location 
  
8. Type of Product (Hospitalization 
/CI /PA /Travel /Combi  
/Package/ Micro / Govt. 
Scheme/ Deductible based) 
  
8.1 Is it filed on modular filing basis 
(package product)? Y/N. If yes, 
the sections/plans/overages: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
  
  
9. Nature of Product (Indemnity 
/Benefit /CI/Travel/PA) 
  
10. Individual/Group/Family Floater   
11 Whether a Pilot Product?   
12 If yes, whether all disclosures 
related to Pilot Product made in 
the Prospectus and Policy 
Wordings? 
 29(iii)

[Page 91]
Page 91 of 110 
 
13 Whether product offers any 
Wellness/Preventive Programs.  
 8(d) 
14 If yes, whether such program 
offers discounts on third party 
merchandise or services? Give 
details 
 8(d) & 19 
II Health Insurance Scenario Details Remarks 
 
1. Total Health Insurance Portfolio 
Net Earned Premium as 
published in Annual Reports for 
last 3 Fin. years 
i) Health 
F.Y. Net Earned Premium 
  
  
  
 
ii) Personal Accident 
F.Y. Net Earned Premium 
  
  
  
 
iii)Travel 
F.Y. Net Earned Premium 
  
  
  
 
 
2. Total Health Insurance portfolio 
Net ICR with IBNR separately 
as published in Annual Reports 
for last 3 Fin. years 
 
F.Y. Net ICR(excluding 
IBNR) 
IBNR 
   
   
   
 
 
3. List of products  so far cleared 
by the Authority with date of 
approval: 
 
 
 
  
 
S. 
No
. 
Name of 
the 
Product 
Date of 
approval 
No. of 
persons 
covered 
Net 
Premium 
Net 
ICR 
1.      
2.      
3.      
 
 
4. List of Products Not launched   
S. No. Name of the Product 
1.  
2.  
3.  
 
 
I I I 
I I I 
I I I 
I I I

[Page 92]
Page 92 of 110 
 
5. List of Products Withdrawn with 
dates 
 
S. No. Name of the 
Product 
Date of 
withdrawal 
   
   
   
   
 
 
III. Documentation Whether filed: YES/NO Remarks 
1. Application Form   
2. Signatures by Key Officials 
referred on Declarations 
  
3. CIS   
4. Prospectus   
5. Proposal Form   
6. Additional form for Change of 
Occupation(if applicable) 
  
7. Rate Chart   
8. Actuary Report/Technical Note   
9. Policy Document   
10. Policy Schedule   
11. Endorsements   
12. Others (Specify)   
IV Completeness of Documents 
filed 
Whether YES/NO/Not Applicable Remarks 
 
1. Are the relevant Application 
form is complete in all respects 
and signed by the persons as 
desired. 
  
2. Is CIS submitted in the manner 
it is required under Regulations 
& Guidelines? 
  
3. Is standard Claim Form being 
used as prescribed? If no, give 
reasons. 
  
4. Is standard Pre -Authorisation 
form (wherever applicable) as 
prescribed being used? If no, 
give reasons. 
  
    
All the details under the clauses of below mentioned documents filed shall be as per the 
Health Insurance Regulation mentioned against that particular clause 
V PROSPECTUS 
  
Particulars to be specified 
Yes/No/Not Applicable 
(with comments, if any) 
Regulation/ 
Product 
Filing 
Guidelines 
Page

[Page 93]
Page 93 of 110 
 
(PFG) 
1 Whether Prospectus is in 
compliance with extant 
guidelines applicable to 
Advertisements? 
   
2 Whether mechanisms or 
incentives to reward 
policyholders for early 
entry, continued renewals 
(wherever applicable), 
favourable claims 
experience are disclosed 
   
3 Whether incentives to 
reward policyholders for 
following Wellness or 
Preventive Habits (where 
applicable) disclosed 
   
4 Whether a ll Coverage 
details are provided 
1. 
2. 
3. 
  
5 Whether Min & Max Entry 
age for Adults & Children  
are separately provided 
   
6. Whether Max Renewable 
Age is provided 
   
7. Whether Minimum & 
Maximum SI is provided 
   
8. Whether Rate Chart forms 
part of the Prospectus. 
   
9. Whether Risk 
Loading/Discount details 
disclosed 
   
10. Whether All exclusions are 
mentioned 
   
11. Whether the period of 
insurance offered is clearly 
spelt out 
   
12. Whether Instalment 
premium involved 
   
13. If yes, whether any grace 
period provided for payment 
of instalments 
   
14. Whether Renewal Clause  
(Terms of Renewal) is 
clearly stated

[Page 94]
Page 94 of 110 
 
15. Whether Cancellation 
Clause & reasons  for 
cancellation with refunds, if 
any, are specified 
   
16. Does the document contain 
Short Period Rates  
(applicable to General and 
Health Insurers) 
   
17. Is Free Look  Period 
specified 
   
18. Is Grace Period  for 
Renewal specified 
   
19. Are Co-pay, Deductibles, 
Excess details, if any, are 
clearly stated 
   
20. Is TPA facility  provided? If 
so, whether TPA details are 
specified. 
   
21. Whether d etails for Pre -
acceptance health 
examination are provided 
   
22. Whether Reimbursement of 
Pre-policy Health Check Up 
Cost specified. If yes, at 
what percentage 
   
23. Whether Cumulative Bonus, 
if any, is provided 
   
24. Whether Portability 
provisions are specified 
   
25. Whether AYUSH cover is 
provided, if yes, is there any 
sub-limit 
AYUSH 
covered 
Sublimit 
 
YES/NO  
 
  
26. Whether Option to migrate 
to any other Suitable Policy  
is provided 
   
27. Whether 3 Months Notice 
provision in case of revision 
is clearly stated 
   
28. Whether details of 
possibility of 
revision/modification of the 
product in future is specified  
   
29. Whether details of 
possibility of withdrawal  of

[Page 95]
Page 95 of 110 
 
the product in future is 
specified 
30. Whether Any change in 
scope of cover after certain 
duration of the policy / 
certain age is specified 
   
31. Whether Procedure for SI 
enhancement or change , if 
any, is specified  
   
32. Whether Circumstances for 
loading the premium or 
withdrawing discounts  are 
specified 
   
33. Whether Upfront disclosure 
on Incentives for early 
entry/continued 
renewals/favourable claims 
experience etc . Are 
specified 
   
 
34. Whether the general 
provisions are clearly stated 
   
35 Whether method of 
calculation of premium in  
respect of Family Floater 
disclosed? 
   
VI PROPOSAL FORM 
 Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable 
(with comments, if any) 
Regulation/ 
Guidelines 
Page 
1. Whether an already 
approved proposal form is 
being used. If yes, provide 
the Unique Reference No. 
of the same. 
If no, give details for Q.No.2 
to 6  
   
2. Whether Nomination with 
name & Relationship with 
insured person is specified 
   
3. Whether the Proposal Form 
contains the declarations as 
per the standard declaration 
specified  
   
4. Whether queries to capture 
options/add-ons/ deletions 
/plans /sections chosen by

[Page 96]
Page 96 of 110 
 
the proposer are raised 
clearly 
5. Whether KYC details are 
provided 
   
6. Whether AML details are 
provided 
   
7. Whether queries concerned 
to various points in line with 
product design are  asked 
for 
 
 
 
 
  
8. Whether Proposal has any 
queries extraneous to risk 
assessment /policy 
servicing? If yes, give 
reasons for including the 
same. 
   
VII. RATE CHART 
 Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable 
(with comments, if any) 
Regulation/ 
Guidelines 
Page 
1. Whether all rates are 
provided as per age 
progression 
   
2. Whether p remium rates 
exclusive of service tax are 
provided 
   
3. Whether d iscount/loading 
details are provided 
   
VIII. 
 
POLICY DOCUMENT 
 Particulars Yes/No/Not Applicable 
(with comments, if any) 
Regulation/ 
Guidelines 
Page 
A Preamble Whether the preamble 
clause provides clarity 
  
B Operational Clauses:    
(i) Whether Standard 
Definitions are provided as 
per the definitions provided 
in circular on Guidelines on 
Standardization in Health  
Insurance and other 
circulars issued from time to 
time  
(Specify as YES/ NO/ Not 
Applicable) 
  
1. Accident    
2. Any one illness

[Page 97]
Page 97 of 110 
 
3. Cashless facility    
4. Condition Precedent     
5. Congenital Anomaly 
(a) Internal Congenital 
Anomaly 
(b) External Congenital 
Anomaly 
   
6. Co-Payment    
7. Cumulative Bonus     
8. Day care centre     
9. Day Care Treatment    
10. Deductible    
11. Dental Treatment     
12. Disclosure to 
information norm 
   
13. Domiciliary 
Hospitalization 
   
14. Emergency Care    
15. Grace Period    
16. Hospital    
17. Hospitalization     
18. Illness  
(a) Acute Condition 
(b) Chronic Condition 
   
19. Injury     
20. Inpatient Care    
21. Intensive Care Unit    
22. ICU Charges    
23. Maternity expenses    
24. Medical Advise     
25. Medical expenses     
26. Medical Practitioner    
27. Medically Necessary    
28. Network Provider    
29. New Born Baby     
30. Non- Network    
31. Notification of Claim     
32. OPD treatment    
33. Pre-Existing Disease    
34. Pre hospitalization  
Medical Expenses 
   
35. Post hospitalization 
Medical Expenses 
   
36. Qualified Nurse    
37. Reasonable and 
Customary Charges

[Page 98]
Page 98 of 110 
 
38. Renewal     
39. Room rent     
40. Subrogation 
(Applicable for non -life 
covers only) 
   
41. Surgery    
42. Unproven/ 
Experimental 
treatment 
   
(ii) Whether Nomenclature of 
CI are provided as per the 
definitions provided in 
circular on Guidelines on 
Standardization in Health 
Insurance and other 
circulars issued from time to 
time 
(Specify YES/NO)   
1. Cancer of specified 
severity 
   
2 Myocardial Infarction    
3. Open chest CABG    
4. Open heart 
replacement or repair 
of heart valves 
   
5. Coma of specified 
severity 
   
6. Kidney failure requiring 
regular dialysis 
   
7. Stroke resulting in 
permanent symptoms 
   
8. Major organ /bone 
marrow transplant 
   
9. Permanent paralysis of 
limbs 
   
10. Motor neuron  disease 
with permanent 
symptoms 
   
11. Multiple sclerosis with 
persisting symptom 
 
 
 
  
12 Angioplasty    
13 Benign Brain Tumour    
14 Blindness    
15 Deafness    
16 End Stage Lung 
Failure

[Page 99]
Page 99 of 110 
 
17 End Stage Liver 
Failure 
   
18 Loss Of Speech    
19 Loss Of Limbs    
20 Major Head Trauma    
21 Primary (Idiopathic) 
Pulmonary 
Hypertension 
 
   
22 Third Degree Burns 
 
   
23 In case any other 
Critical Illnesses are 
covered, whether the 
same have been 
defined. 
   
C. Various Other 
Clauses 
   
1 Whether all 
Benefits/Optional 
Covers/Add-ons and Co -
Pays/Deductible/Sublimits, 
if any applicable to the 
policy are filed in 
Application Form as per  
Product Filing Procedure? 
(No Benefit or Restrictions 
other than those filed shall 
be mentioned in Policy 
Wordings) 
   
1. Whether Coverage 
details/Plans/Sections  as 
applicable to the policy are 
specified in the Policy 
Document and/or Policy 
Schedule 
   
2. Whether Optional 
Benefits/Add-ons/Deletions 
as applicable to the policy 
are specified in the Policy 
Document and/or Policy 
Schedule 
   
3. Whether Sub-limits/Caps as 
applicable to the policy are 
specified in the Policy 
Document and/or Policy 
Schedule

[Page 100]
Page 100 of 110 
 
4. Whether Special Feature if 
any as applicable to the 
policy are specified in the 
Policy Document and/or 
Policy Schedule 
   
5. Whether all the e xclusions 
are specified 
   
6. Whether Contribution is 
applied as per extant 
Regulations? 
   
7. Whether Subrogation, if 
applicable, is mentioned 
(Applicable for non -life 
covers only) 
   
8. Whether Co-pay, if any are 
clearly stated 
   
9. Whether 
Deductibles/Excess, if any 
are clearly stated 
   
10. Whether any package rates 
or restrictions thereon are 
applicable. If yes, whether 
disclosed in Prospectus and 
Policy Wordings 
   
11. Whether Loading & 
Discount, if any are clearly 
stated 
   
11. Whether instalment 
premium is involved 
   
12. If yes, whether any grace 
period is provided for 
payment of instalment 
premiums. 
   
13. Whether Renewal 
Clause(Terms of Renewal) 
is clearly stated 
   
14. Whether Cancellation 
Clause & reasons  for 
cancellation with refunds, if 
any, are specified 
   
15. Does the document contain 
Short Period Rates 
   
16. Whether Waiting Periods 
are clearly stated 
   
17. Is Free Look  Period 
specified and refund of

[Page 101]
Page 101 of 110 
 
premium thereon is per 
extant Regulations  
19. Is Grace Period  for 
Renewal (if applicable) 
specified 
   
20. Whether Any one illness/ 
Relapse Period applicable. 
If yes, whether disclosed? 
   
21. Is TPA facility provided? If 
yes, whether TPA details 
are specified. 
   
22. Whether Cumulative Bonus, 
if any, is provided 
   
23. Whether Portability 
provisions are specified 
   
24. Whether AYUSH cover is 
provided, if yes, is there any 
sub-limit 
   
25. Whether Option to migrate 
to any other Suitable Policy  
is provided 
   
26. Whether Any change in 
scope of cover after certain 
duration of the policy / 
certain age is specified 
   
27. Whether Procedure for SI 
enhancement or change , if 
any, is specified  
   
28. Whether details of 
possibility of revision/ 
modification of the product 
in future is specified  
   
29. Whether 3 Months Notice 
provision in case of revision 
is clearly stated  
   
30 Whether the clause of n o 
loading on renewals on 
Individual claims 
experience basis is stated 
   
31. Whether Grievance 
redressal details  including 
senior citizens separately 
are provided 
   
32. Whether Cashless Facility 
available. If yes, provide 
information on Q.No. 31 &

[Page 102]
Page 102 of 110 
 
32 
33. Whether Details of Net -
work hospitals is provided 
   
34. Whether Details of black 
listed hospitals is provided 
   
35. Whether the list of excluded 
items is attached  with the 
Policy Document, if 
applicable 
   
36. Whether the Policy 
Wordings are in simple & 
plain language and easy to 
understand 
   
D Claim Documents (Type 
of claim wise) 
   
1. Whether documents 
required for insurance claim 
is specified and if so 
whether condonation of 
delay is stated 
   
2. Whether timelines for 
intimation of claim and 
submission of Claim 
documents clearly specified 
   
3. Is there a provision to 
condone delay in intimation 
of Claim for genuine 
reasons? 
   
4. Whether all ‘necessary 
documents’ for claim clearly 
specified. (No unnamed 
document can be 
mentioned under 
‘necessary documents’) 
   
5. Whether PM Report  (if 
applicable) is asked only if 
conducted 
   
6. Whether 30 days claim 
settlement period is 
specified and whether 
payment of penal interest in 
case of delay is stated 
   
E Specific Information for 
CI Policy: 
   
1. Whether Survival Period , if 
any, is provided

[Page 103]
Page 103 of 110 
 
2. Does the cover cease on 
payment of a claim 
   
3. Can the insured renew the 
policy once a particular 
critical illness is paid 
   
F Micro Insurance  (Refer 
MIR, 2015) 
   
1 Is the SI is within the limits 
prescribed under MI 
Regulations 
   
2  Whether a detailed write -
up about the policy details 
provided in relevant 
vernacular language 
   
3 Is Caption of Micro 
Insurance prominent and 
included in the name of the 
product. 
   
4 Whether Commission to MI 
Agents is as per applicable 
Regulations  
   
5 Whether all Operational 
aspects as per extant Micro 
Insurance Regulations are 
complied 
 
 
   
G Policy Schedule    
1. Whether Intermediary 
details are captured 
   
2. 
3. 
Whether Period of 
Insurance (including Time)  
is captured 
   
4. 
5. 
Whether Nominee Name & 
Relationship with insured  is 
captured 
   
6. 
 
Whether Cover Details 
including sections/plans  are 
captured 
   
7. 
 
Whether Add-ons/Optional 
Covers/Deletions are 
captured 
   
8. Whether Endorsements, if 
any, are captured 
   
9. Whether Coinsurance 
details, if any, are provided

[Page 104]
Page 104 of 110 
 
10. Whether premium details 
are provided 
   
11. Whether loadings & 
discounts are provided 
   
12. Whether service tax is 
provided separately 
   
13. Whether stamp duty is 
captured 
   
14. Whether all insured details 
are captured  
    
15. Whether list of attachments 
is captured 
   
H Endorsement Wordings    
1 Whether t ype of 
endorsements wordings are 
provided 
   
IX. 
 
CLAIM MANUAL 
 Particulars 
 
Yes/No/Not Applicable 
(with comments, if any) 
Regulation/ 
Guidelines 
Page 
1 Whether the guidelines for 
processing of claims are 
specifically provided 
- In house 
- TPA 
   
X ACTUARY REPORT/TECHNICAL NOTE                                                        
 Particulars 
 
Yes/No/Not Applicable 
(with comments, if any) 
Regulation/ 
Guidelines 
Page 
1. Whether Technical 
Note/Pricing Approach duly 
signed by Appointed 
Actuary 
   
2. Whether Complete Pricing 
Details including 
methodology adopted to 
arrive at the premium, 
together with data sources 
utilized are provided 
   
3. Whether Assumptions made 
shall include the expected 
claim frequency and claim 
severities across age bands, 
expected expenses, lapse

[Page 105]
Page 105 of 110 
 
rates etc. are provided 
4. Whether Specific loadings & 
discounts, if any, allowed  
are provided 
   
5. Whether The profit margin 
at various model points or 
the expected loss ratio and 
the expected combined ratio 
across various model points 
across the entire portfolio  
are provided 
   
6. Whether the U/W capacity 
required for the product and 
the actual capacity available 
with the insurer is provided 
   
7. Whether The retention 
capacity to manage the 
business is provided 
   
8. Whether Internal Capacity 
Building measures, if any, 
required to offer the 
proposed product  are 
provided 
   
9. Whether other relevant 
metric, if any, is specified 
   
10. Whether Expected claim 
ratio & Combined ratio  (if 
applicable) and profit margin 
is provided 
   
XII FOR REVISION: Not Applicable for New products                                            
 Particulars 
 
Yes/No/Not Applicable 
(with comments, if any) 
Regulation/ 
Guidelines 
Page 
1. If change in terms/covers is 
proposed, whether all such 
changes are mentioned with 
justifications?  
   
2. If change in pricing is 
proposed, whether the filing 
made as per the Product 
Filing Guidelines and 
justification for price revision  
is  provided 
   
3. Whether Claims experience 
for 3 immediate preceding 
years compared to the 
expected experience duly

[Page 106]
Page 106 of 110 
 
explaining the variations, 
and the experience of 
similar products provided 
4. Whether the expected 
claims experience, The 
assumptions underlying the 
proposed pricing along with 
expected COR and profit 
margin provided  
   
5. Following details to be 
provided: 
 
i) Provisions/terms existing 
but modified in the 
proposed revision with 
change / no change in 
pricing 
S. 
No. 
Existing 
Provision
s/terms 
Proposed 
revised 
provisions/
terms 
Reasons 
    
 
ii) Provisions/terms existing 
but deleted in the 
proposed revision with 
change/no change in 
pricing 
S. 
No. 
Existing 
Provisions/terms 
Reasons for 
deletion 
   
 
iii) Provisions/terms not 
existing but proposed to 
incorporate in the 
proposed revision 
S. 
No. 
Provisions/terms as 
proposed  to 
incorporate in proposed 
revision 
Reasons 
   
 
iv) Change in price 
S
. 
N
o. 
Existing 
Premiu
m 
Revise
d 
Premiu
m 
(+)/(-) 
percentage 
changes 
as 
compared 
to the 
existing 
price 
Reasons
     
 
  
6. Date of the original product 
clearance 
   
7. Date of last revision    
XIII Any Other Details 
 
I I I I I 
I I I I 
I I I I

[Page 107]
Page 107 of 110 
 
 
XIV.  CERTIFICATION  
The undersigned, on behalf of the Insurer named below, hereby affirms and declares as 
follows: 
1. That the details of the                             (Name of product) filled in above are 
true and correct and reflect what the policy and other documents indicate. 
2. That the product complies with the various provisions of t he IRDAI Health 
Insurance Regulations, 2016, Product Filing Procedure and the 
Standardisation Guidelines in Health Insurance, 2016 and the applicable 
provisions of Regulations notified by the Authority and the applicable circulars 
and Guidelines issued by IRDAI from time to time. 
3. That the File and Use application and all other documents are complete and 
have been verified for correctness and consistency not only in respect of each 
item of each document but also vis-a-vis one another. 
4. That the copy of the Pr oposal Form will be attached with the Policy and 
supplied to the proposer. 
5. In addition to the above four points, the following is APPLICABLE FOR LIFE 
INSURERS ONLY: 
That the product complies with IRDA (Linked Insurance Products) 
Regulations 2013 / IRDA (No n-Linked Insurance Products) 
Regulations 2013 (strike-off whichever is not applicable)  
 
Date:        (Chief Compliance Officer) 
                         Name of Insurer 
 
Note to Chief Compliance Officer: (1) Information in the Product Filing Check -List 
cum Certification shall be examined with due reference to the extant Regulations / 
Guidelines issued by the Authority and be furnished. (2) Regulation / Guidelines 
Reference number shall be mentioned in the relevant column (3) Pag e number of 
the respective document shall be mentioned in the relevant column.

[Page 108]
Page 108 of 110 
 
Annexure - 8 
FORM: IRDAI-GHIS 
Information on Government Sponsored Health Insurance Schemes offered by Life or Health or Non-Life Insurers  
Annual Return 
Note: (i) Information to be furnished for the financial year within 60 days from the close of every FY. (ii) Information to be furnished separately 
for each insurance product in the same format.  
 
Name of the Insurer:  
Name of the Insurance Product: 
UIN of the Insurance Product: 
Financial Year: 
TABLE - 1 
Geographi
cal Unit 
(District/St
ate /UT)** 
Date of 
award of 
tender or 
Date of 
launch of 
the 
Scheme 
No. of 
Policies sold 
during the 
year 
No. of Persons 
Covered 
Premium 
per Person 
(Rs.) 
Total 
Premium 
received 
(Rs.) 
No. of 
Claims 
settled 
during the 
year 
Total 
amount of 
claims 
settled 
*ICR (%) Assumed  
ICR (%) 
as per the 
filing made 
with IRDAI 
Reasons, if 
any for 
deviation 
  CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY   
                  
Total f or 
the 
product 
                 
Note:  * ICR to be furnished for each Financial Year (CY-Current Year, PY-Previous Year) 
    **Please specify the Geographical Unit as per award of tender for the scheme, wherever applicable.   
 
Date:  Signature of Chief Compliance Officer 
Place:         
     Office seal

[Page 109]
Page 109 of 110 
 
Annexure - 9 
FORM: IRDAI – GHISAR 
Data on Group Health Insurance Schemes offered by Health or General Insurers  
Annual Return (Financial Year-wise & Policy Year-wise) 
 
Note: (i) Information to be furnished for every completed financial year within 60 days from the end of every FY. (ii) Information to be furnished 
separately for each group insurance product in the same format. (iii) Information in respect of Table – 2 shall be furnished in respect of all group 
policies whose policy years are completed in the Financial Year in respect of which the information is reported. 
 
Name of the Insurer:  
Name of the Product: 
UIN: 
Financial Year: 
TABLE -1 
S.No Name of the 
Master 
Policyholder 
Policy No. Policy Period No. of Persons 
Covered 
Premium per 
Person (Rs.) 
Total 
Premium 
received (Rs.) 
No. of Claims 
settled during 
the year 
Total 
amount of 
claims 
settled 
ICR (%) Assumed  
ICR (%) 
Actuarial 
Justification for 
deviation in ICR, 
if any 
  CY PY From To CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY  
                     
 
Policy Year-wise: 
TABLE- 2 
S.No Name of the 
Master 
Policyholder 
Policy No. Policy Period No. of Persons 
Covered 
Premium per 
Person (Rs.) 
Total 
Premium 
received (Rs.) 
No. of Claims 
settled during 
the year 
Total 
amount of 
claims 
settled 
ICR (%) Assumed  
ICR (%) 
Actuarial 
Justification for 
deviation in ICR, 
if any 
  CY PY From To CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY CY PY  
                     
Date:            Name & Signature of the Chief Compliance Officer 
Place:             Office Seal

[Page 110]
Page 110 of 110 
 
Annexure - 10 
FORM: IRDAI – HIPP 
 Health Insurance Pilot Products offered by Health or General Insurers  
Annual Return  
Note: (i) Information to be furnished for every completed financial year within 60 days from the close of every FY. (ii) Information to be furnished 
separately for each Health Insurance Pilot Product in the same format. (iii) In respect of TABLE – 1, Information to be submitted separately for 
Individual and Group Products in the same format for all Financial Years since launch of product. (iv) Information in respect of Table – 2 shall 
be additionally furnished in respect of all Policies issued under Group Health Insurance Pilot Products for each completed policy year since 
issue of first policy to the group.  
 
Name of the Insurer:  
Name of the Pilot Product: 
UIN: 
Financial Year: 
TABLE-1 
FY No. of Policies 
sold 
No. of Persons 
Covered 
Total Premium 
received (Rs.) 
No. of 
Claims paid 
during the 
year 
Total amount 
of claims 
paid (INR) 
ICR (%) Assumed 
ICR (%) 
Actuarial 
Justification 
for 
deviation in 
ICR, if any 
         
 
Policy Year-wise (only for Group Pilot Products) data to be separately furnished for all Completed Policy Years: 
TABLE-2 
Pol 
Year 
Name of the 
Master 
Policyholder 
Policy No. Policy Period No. of Persons 
Covered 
Premium per 
Person (Rs.) 
Total 
Premium 
received 
(Rs.) 
No. of 
Claims paid 
during the 
year 
Total 
amount of 
claims paid 
ICR (%) Assumed 
ICR (%) 
Actuarial 
Justification for 
deviation in 
ICR, if any 
   From To         
 
Date:          Name & Signature of the Chief Compliance Officer 
Place:             Office Seal  
 
I
