[Page 1]
Ji~ \ll(J\q iii!, fclf.Ni>lifi JR f.Airtt lURlifi(OI 
•••• INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
ir.lai DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF INDIA 
IRDAI / INT/ GDL/ RSB/ 139/08/2019 
22nd August, 2019 
Guidelines on operational issues pertaining to the Regulatory Sandbox 
As per Regulation 13(3) of the IRDAI (Regulatory Sandbox) Regulations , 2019, the Authority 
hereby issues the following guidelines on operational issues pertaining to the Regulatory 
Sandbox. 
The following procedure will be followed for the implementation of "innovation in insurance" 
programme through Regulatory Sandbox. 
1) Application for grant of permission for promoting innovation in insurance in India -
An applicant desiring to promote or implement any innovation in insurance in India shall 
make an application to the Authority in Form -RG-1 in any one or more of the categories 
given in Regulation 4 of the IRDAI (Regulatory Sandbox) Regulations , 2019. 
2) Innovation in insurance in India 
a. Every applicant shall demonstrate to the Authority that the proposal for innovation will 
help increase insurance penetration or provide enhanced services to the policyholders. 
b. The proposal shall not be made merely for the sake of seeking a regulatory relaxation 
but shall be a genuine innovation. 
c. The decision of the Authority on whether the proposal is an innovation or not shall be 
final. 
3) Single Point of Contact -
a. The applicant shall nominate an experienced and responsible person to be the single 
point of contact for interacting with the Authority on the application submitted. 
b. The Authority shall also nominate a single point of contact for interacting with the 
applicant and to facilitate provision of guidance to the applicant. 
c. All communication shall be routed through these single points of contact. 
4) Regulatory Relaxation -
a. The Authority may consider granting limited regulatory relaxation to the proposal that 
promotes innovation in insurance in India. 
b. However , no relaxation shall be offered in respect of compliance with the Insurance 
Act, 193 8 or the IRDA Act, 1999 or any other applicable statutory provisions . 
5) Disclosure to the customers/ participants by the applicant -
a. The customers participating in the proposal shall be clearly informed that they are 
participating in a proposal whose outcomes are not certain. 
b. Prior consent of the customers shall be taken regarding their willingness to participate 
in the proposal. 
1 
~ ,t, 11 5/1, ~~. -iWfi<l~'J~I, ~ -500 032, 'ITTrcf I Survey No. 115/1, Financial District, Nanak~amguda, Hy~era~ad-50~ 032, India 
6) : +91-40-2020 4000 ~ : www.irdai.gov.in 6) : +91-40-2020 4000 Website : www.irda1.gov.1n

[Page 2]
c. The applicant shall ensure that the customer s particip ating in the prop osal have made 
a voluntary and conscious choice. 
6) Size of the proposal -
a. The proposal shall come to an end if any of the following is achieved within the 
stipulated time: 
1. Numbe r of customers - I 0,000; 
11. Premium collected - Rs. 50 lakh; 
m . Any other parameter(s) decided by the Authority. 
7) Application for innovation in defined categories 
a. (i) An application for innovation in insuranc e invo lving underwriting or product 
category or both shall be filed by any applicant in association with any insurer(s). 
(ii) An application involving an activity other than underwriting or product category 
may be filed sing ly or jointly by any applicant. 
b. The Application shall specify in clear terms the regulatory provisions that need 
relaxation to execute the proposal. 
Provided that the Authority reserves the right to limit the relaxation in the matte rs 
concerning the protection of the inter ests of policyholders and grievances redressal 
procedures. 
Provided furth er that the relaxation sought shall not be prejudicial to the interests of 
the existing policyholders and shall help in furtheri ng the insurance penetration or 
policy servici ng to the policyholders. 
c. The applicant shall spec ify the potential risks that are inherent in the proposal as 
evaluated and the measures that are taken to eliminate or mitigate the risks. 
d. Every propo sal shall be approved by the highest decision making authority with 
reference to the applicant , such as Board in case of a company. 
e. The applicant shall put in place measures for closely monitoring the implementation 
of the proposal and shall update the Board or the highest decision making authority on 
the status on a periodic basis. 
8) Accounting treatment of expenses on the proposal for innovation -
a. Expe nses incurred on the proposal shall be maintained separate ly and shown as a line 
item in the Annual Report. In case of insurers such expenses shall be charged to the 
sharehold er's accounts or its equivalent. 
9) Migration of policies and services at the end of proposal period -
a. The app licant may continue offering the service or the product on a regular basis in 
the market on lines of any other services and products under the applicable regulatory 
framework with necessary approva l of the Authority. 
b. If the policyholder does not continue with the service or product, then the applicant 
shall honour the existing liabiliti es in accordance to the agreed term s and conditions. 
2

[Page 3]
10) Confidentiality of personal information and data security -
a. It shall be the duty of every applicant to keep the personal information collected during 
the course of the business transaction confidential and prevent its misuse . 
b. The applicant before commencing the operations shall put in place measures to 
maintain confidentialit y of polic yholder data and adequate systems to prevent 
manipulation of records and transactions . 
c. The safeguards put in place shall be reviewed on a continuous basis . 
d. Where any other person (other than an insurer or an insurance intermediary) engages 
with an insurer or insurance intermediary in executing the innovation , it is the duty of 
the insurer or the insurance intermediary , as the case may be, to ensure that no personal 
information pertaining to the polic yholders is parted or retained with that other person. 
e. Where an insurer , insurance intermediary and the third party are jointly involved in 
implementing the innovation , it is the responsibility of the insurer and insurance 
intermediar y to ensure that personal data of the polic yholder is not parted or retained 
by the third part y. 
11) Grievances -
a. The applicant shall put in place a mechanism to address policyholders' grievances . 
b. The grievances of policyholder s shall be attended to within the time frame specified 
by the Authorit y from time to time. 
c. The insurer or insurance intermediary, as the case may be, are responsible to dispose 
off the grievances in accordance with the extant regulator y norms. 
12) Other issues - The applicant shall immediately report to the Authorit y of any regulator y 
or supervisor y action taken against the proposal by any Government or other Regulatory 
Authorities with full details including the penalty imposed , if any, administrative action 
taken and the remedial steps taken by it to prevent such recurrence . 
13) Reporting requirements -The applicant shall submit to the Authorit y the reports as 
specified by it while approving the proposal. 
14) Further powers of the Authority 
a. Power of the Chairperson to issue clarifications: In order to remove any difficulties in 
respect of the application or interpretation of any of the provisions of these Guidelines , 
the Chairperson of the Authority may issue appropriate clarifications from time to time. 
- '>,.{-
Dr. Subhash C. Khuntia 
~ Chairman , IRDAI 
3

[Page 4]
Form-RG-1 
(see Guideline 1 of IRDAI "Guidelines on operational issues pertaining to the Regulatory Sandbox") 
Application under IRDAI (Regulatory Sandbox) Regulations, 2019 
S. No. Particulars 
1 Name of the Applicant 
Address, Contact Details of the Applicant 
2 Whether any other person/ entity has beneficial interest in the proposal 
3 Category of the Applicant - (Whether Insurer / Insurance Intermediary 
I Others) 
4 Whether application is filed singly or in association with any insurer/ 
insurance intermediary 
5 Category of application ( one or more) 
■ Insurance Solicitation or Distribution 
■ Insurance Products 
■ Underwriting 
■ Policy and Claims Servicing 
■ Any other (please specify) 
6 Details of the applicant ( only if answer to S. No. 3 is "Others") -
a) Corporate structure - (Whether Company I Limited Liability 
Partnership Firm/ Co-operative society/ Others (to be 
specified)) 
b) Registration No. or CIN No. or equivalent 
c) Date of incorporation or establishment 
d) Primary business activity 
e) Whether the applicant is a regulated entity in India or abroad. 
If so, name of the regulatory authority. 
f) Name of shareholders holding more than 10% equity 
g) Details of specific funds raised, if any, for the proposal 
7 Names and contact details of two authorised persons (directors/ 
partners) and Chief Executive Officer of the applicant 
8 Name and contact details of Single Point of Contact of the applicant 
9 Details of the proposal -
a) Description of how it differs from current market offerings 
b) Benefits offered. expected outcomes and success parameters 
c) Size 
d) Risks foreseen and proposed risk management strategy 
e) Steps proposed for protection of policyholders' interests 
f) Copy of disclosures to be made and consent to be obtained from 
policyholders 
g) Exit strategy for the applicant and policyholders 
10 Details of testing that will be performed under the proposal -
a) Intended start and end date; 
4

[Page 5]
11 
b) Regulatory requirements that the applicant requests to be 
relaxed , if any 
c) Test plan , controls and scenarios 
d) Monitoring plan to ensure compliance 
Please attach the following documents -
a) MOA & AOA/ LLP Deed or equivalent ( only if answer to S. No. 
3 is "Others ") 
b) Audited financial statements of last financial year ( only if answer 
to S. No . 3 is "Others ") 
c) Networth as at end of last financial year certified by a chartered 
accountant ( only if answer to S. No. 3 is "Others ") 
d) Resolution of the Board or equivalent of the applicant on the 
proposal 
e) Details of the past innovation in financial sector , if any, carried 
out by the applicant 
t) Personal declaration form as per Annex " 1" in respect of persons 
mentioned under S. No. 7 & 8 
THIS DECLARATION IS TO BE SIGNED BY TWO DIRECTORS / PARTNERS OF THE 
APPLICANT AS THE CASE MAY BE 
1) We hereby apply for seeking permission for the proposal. 
2) We have read the IRDAI "Guidelines on operational issues pertaining to the Regulatory 
Sandbox " and confirm that: 
a. We are eligible to apply for grant of permission for the proposal; 
b. We have to the best of my knowledge and belief , truly and completely answered the 
questions above and provided all the information which might reasonably be considered 
relevant for the purposes of grant of permission; 
c. We undertake that we shall be responsible for every action taken in respect of the 
proposal and shall be liable to discharge all the obligations thereunder including any legal 
obligations thereunder; 
d. We undertake that personal information pertaining to the policyholders is handled as per 
Guideline 10. 
e. We undertake that grievances of policyholders would be attended to within the time 
frame specified by the Authority from time to time . 
Place: 
Date: 
1. 
2. 
(Signature of the authorised persons) 
5

[Page 6]
Annexure "1" 
PERSONAL DECLARATION FORM 
(see Form - RG - 1 of IRDAI "Guidelines on operational issues pertaining to the Regulatory Sandbox") 
1. Personal Details 
a. Full Name 
b. Position in the applicant 
C. Date of Birth 
d. Correspondence Address 
e. E-mail ID, Telephone Number 
f. PAN 
2. FIT & Proper Criteria: 
If answer is YES to any of the following questions; please give details 
a. Have you carried on business under any name other than the name stated in 
this application 
Have you ever been refused or restricted by any Statutory / Government 
b. authority to carry on any business , trade or profession for which a specific 
licence or registration or other authorization is required by law. 
Have you ever been warned or reprimanded or censured or disciplined or 
C. suspended perm1ss10n or licence or registration by any Statutory / 
Government authority to carry on any business activity 
d. Have you ever been subject to any disciplinary proceeding by any Statutory / 
Government authority 
e. Have you ever been convicted of any offence or subject to any pending 
proceedings under any law 
f. Do you attract any of the disqualifications envisaged under Section 164 of 
the Companies ' Act 2013 ? 
g. Has any of your group company /associate compan y/related party been 
carrying any licence / registration issued by Authority . 
Undertaking 
I confirm that the above information is, to the best of my knowledge and belief , true and complete. I undertake 
to keep the Authority fully informed , as soon as possible , of all events, which take place subsequent to this 
undertaking , pertaining to the information provided above . 
Place: Signature 
Date: Name 
6
