[Page 1]
.; 
• 
JI~ 
t, ►,•iilm INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
ildai DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF INDIA IRDA/F&A/GDL/LSTD/15.Jl0S/2016 
August 05, 2016 
To 
All Private sectors Insurers 
Sub: Guidelines on Remuneration of Non-executive Directors and Managing 
Director /Chief Executive Officer/ Whole-time Directors of Insurers 
Financial institutions like insurance companies are an important part of the financial 
system. Any risk that adversely affects the insurers also gets transmitted to the other 
constituents, and through them, to the financial system. The global financial crisis in 
the recent past was a result of such phenomenon. 
The remuneration packages and bonuses & incentives to the employees of financial 
institutions have often been based on high short-term profits without adequate regard 
to the long-term risks emanating from their decisions/ actions. The incentives have 
encouraged excessive risk taking behavior by employees, which threatened the global 
financial system and left firms with fewer financial resources to absorb losses in cases 
where the risks materialized. The compensation or remuneration practices at financial 
institutions are now broadly believed to have been one of the major factors that 
contributed to the crisis. 
The issue has been widely discussed and debated in various international forums and a 
set of principles has been brought out by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) for 
implementation of sound remuneration practices by financial institutions. These are: 
1. Effective governance of compensation - active Board oversight 
2. Effective alignment of compensation to prudent risk-taking 
3. Effective supervisory oversight and engagement by stakeholders. 
The Insurance Core Principle (ICP) - 7 of the International Association of Insurance 
Supervisors (IAIS) also endorses the implementation of a remuneration policy covering 
the members of the Board of insurers, senior management and Key management 
_ls-
'!ITTWT~, ~(@, ~, ~-500004 . m«f 
t = i 1fo'4@a3ss 1100, m : 91-040-6682 3334 
i-i@: irda@irda .gov.in ~: www.irda.gov.in 
Parisharam Bhavan, 3rd Floor, Basheer Bagh, Hyderabad-500 004. India. 
Ph.: 91-040-2338 1100, Fax: 91-040-6682 3334 
E-mail : irda@irda.gov.in Web.: www.irda.gov.in

[Page 2]
.: 
= persons in control functions and other employees whose actions may have material 
impact on the risk, and supervisory oversight over the same. 
The principles of fair and equitable remuneration packages to top executives of 
financial firms has also been endorsed by the G-20 nations and the Basel Committee 
on Banking Supervision (BCBS) and have already been implemented in various 
jurisdictions, including the European Union. 
In this background, the Authority, in exercise of its powers under Section 14 of the IRDA 
Act, 1999 prescribes the guidelines annexed with this circular on remuneration for Non­
Executive Directors and Managing Director / Chief Executive Officer / Whole-time 
Directors of Insurers. 
The guidelines shall be effective from 1st October, 2016 or from the date of 
appointment / re-appointment of MD / CEO / WTDs and Non-executive Directors, 
whichever is later. 
21 Page

[Page 3]
Annexure-A 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Remuneration 
of Non-executive Directors of Private Sector Insurers) Guidelines, 2016 
The need to bring in professionalism to the boards of insurers cannot be 
overemphasized. In order to enable Insurers to attract and retain professional 
directors it is essential that such directors are appropriately compensated. 
Accordingly, the Authority has finalised the guidelines on remuneration for non­
executive Directors, as under for implementation by the private sector insurers. 
1. Remuneration Policy 
a. The Board of Directors, in consultation with its Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, should formulate and adopt a comprehensive 
remuneration policy for the non-executive Directors. While formulating 
the Policy, the Board shall ensure compliance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
b. The Board may, at its discretion, provide for, in the Policy, payment of 
remuneration in the form of profit related commission to the non­
executive directors, subject to the insurer making profits. Such 
remuneration, however, shall not exceed Rs. Ten lakh per annum for 
each such director excluding Chairman. For the Chairman of the Board, 
the remuneration may be decided by the Board of Directors of the 
respective company. 
2. Sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses 
In addition to the directors' remuneration mentioned in para 1.b above, the 
Insurer may pay sitting fees to the non-executive directors and reimburse 
their expenses for participation in the Board and other meetings, subject to 
compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. 
~ 
3I Page

[Page 4]
3. Disclosure 
Insurers are required to make disclosure on remuneration paid to such 
directors on an annual basis at the minimum, in their Annual Financial 
Statements. 
~ -****-~ 
/ 
41 Page

[Page 5]
Annexure-B 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Remuneration of 
Chief Executive Officer/ Whole-time Director/ Managing Director of Insurers) 
Guidelines, 2016 
The remune ration payable to Chief Executive Officer / Whole-Time Director / 
Managing Director is governed by the provisions of Section 34A of the Insurance 
Act, 1938 . The Section 34A provides as under 
34A. (1) In the case of an insurer,-
(a) no amendment made after the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 
1968, of any provision relating to the appointment, reappointment, termination 
of appointment or remuneration of a managing or whole-time director, or of a 
manager or a chief executive offi cer, by whatever name called, whether that 
provision be contained in the insurer 's memorandum or articles of association, 
or in an agreement entered into by him, or in any resolution passed by the 
insurer in general meeting or by his Board of directors shall have effect unless 
approved by the Authority; 
(b) no appointment, re-appointment or termination of appointment , made after the 
commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1968, of a managing or 
whole-time director, or a manager or a chief executive officer, by whatever 
name called, shall have effect unless such appointment, reappointment or 
termination of appointment is made with the previous approval of the 
2[Authority]. 
Explanation.-For the purposes of this sub-section, any provision conferring any 
benefit or providing any amenity or perquisite, in whatever form, whether during or 
after the termination of the term of office of the manager or the chief executive officer, 
by whatever name called, or a managing or whole-time director, shall be deemed to 
be a provision relating to his remuneration . 
SI Page ~

[Page 6]
(2) Nothing contained in sections 268 and 269, the proviso to sub-section (3) of 
section 309, sections 310 and 311, the proviso to sections 387, and section 388 (in so 
far as section 388 makes the provisions of sections 310 and 311 apply in relation to 
the manager of a compan y) of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), shall apply to any 
matter in respect of which the approval of the ][Authority] has to be obtained under 
sub-section (1). 
(3) No act done by a person as a managing or whole-time director or a director not 
liable to retire by rotation or a manager or a chief executive officer , by whatever 
name called, shall be deemed to be invalid on the ground that it is subsequently 
discovered that his appointment or re-appointment had not taken effect by reason of 
any of the provisions of this Act; but nothing in this sub-section shall be construed as 
rendering valid any act done by such person after his appointment or re-appointment 
has been shown to the insurer not to have had effect. 
As is evident from the above, any provisions relating to remuneration of 
Managing Director /Chief Executive Officer / Whole-Time Director requires prior 
approval of the Authority. The Authority in order to streamline the process of the 
approval had issued circular no. 031 /IRDA /CIR/ COMPLIANCE/ AUG-2007. The 
circular prescribes the manner of seeking approval for the appointment and 
remuneration of the MD/ CEO/ WTDs, by what so ever name called. The form C 
of the circular covers the break-up of remuneration payable to MD /CEO/ WTDs. 
The Authority has not laid down any prescription/guidelines to the insurers on 
remuneration of MD/ CEO/ WTDs. In effect, there are no limits imposed by IRDAI 
on the remuneration structure barring the fact that remuneration beyond Rs. 
1.50 crore should be debited to the Shareholders' Fund. 
In the light of the above, it is felt that there is an immediate need to lay down 
guidelines on remuneration of the MD/ CEO/ WTDs which needs to be kept in 
view while processing the remuneration application. In view of the above, the 
Authority hereby lays down the following framework on remuneration of the MD 
~ 6-6I Page

[Page 7]
/CEO / WTDs. The framework enunciated below draws the global best practice 
as also the framework in place in the financial sector in the domestic market. 
1. The guidelines shall be applicable for remuneration payable to MD / CEO / 
WTDs of Private sector Insurers. 
2. Insurers should formulate and adopt a comprehensive remuneration policy 
covering the MD/CEO/ WTDs. The said policy should also be reviewed 
annually. The policy should cover all aspects of the remuneration structure 
such as fixed pay, perquisites, bonus, guaranteed pay, severance package, 
stock, pension plan, gratuity, etc. taking into account these guidelines. 
The process of framing / review the policy should be completed within 3 
months of the issue of the Guidelines. 
3. Insurers should ensure that for the MD/ CEO/WTDs: 
i. Remuneration is adjusted for all types of risk, 
ii. Remuneration outcomes are symmetric with risk outcomes, and 
iii. Remuneration payouts are sensitive to the time horizon of the risk. 
iv. The mix of cash, equity and other forms of remuneration must be 
consistent with risk alignment. 
4. A wide variety of measures of credit, market and liquidity risks may be used 
by the Insurers in implementation of risk adjustment. The risk adjusted 
methods should preferably have both quantitative and judgmental elements. 
The following are the minimum parameters which needs to be taken into 
account the following 
i. Persistency 
ii. Solvency 
iii. Grievance Redressal 
iv. Expenses of Management 
v. Claim settlement 
vi. Claim repudiations 
vii. Overall Compliance status 
71 Page 
~

[Page 8]
viii. Overall financial position such as Net-Worth Position of Insurer, Asset 
under Management (AUM) etc. 
The above parameters are only indicative; Insurers may formulate their own 
parameters which should be in line with the Business Plan of the Insurer. 
5. Fixed pay: Insurers are required to ensure that the fixed portion of 
remuneration is reasonable taking into account all relevant factors. 
6. Variable pay composition and deferral 
i. While designing the remuneration arrangements it should be ensured 
that there is a proper balance between fixed pay and variable pay. At 
higher levels of responsibility, the proportion of variable pay may be 
higher. 
ii. The variable pay could be in cash, stock linked instruments or mix of 
both. However, Employees Stock Option Plan (ESOP) may be excluded 
from components of variable pay. 
iii. The deterioration in the financial performance of the Insurer and the 
other parameters specified at para 4 should generally lead to a 
contraction in the total amount of variable remuneration paid. 
iv. The Insurer may define what is "substantial" in its remuneration policy. 
Where the variable pay constitutes a substantial portion of the total pay, 
[say 50% or more] , an appropriate portion of such variable pay, [such 
as 40 % to 60 % of such variable pay] must be deferred over a period of 
not less than of 3 years. 
v. There should be proper balance between the cash and stock / share 
components (other than ESOP) in the variable pay in case the variable 
SI Page 
remuneration contains stock or equity share linked instruments (other 
than ESOP). 
~ 
., .

[Page 9]
7. ESOP 
ESOP is kept outside the computation of the total remuneration but the 
extent of ESOP should be reasonable. The details of ESOP granted should 
also be disclosed in terms of the disclosure requirements stipulated for the 
financial statements of the Insurers. 
In case the shares of the insurance company are offered as ESOPs to 
Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer/ Whole Time Directors , then: 
i. If the CEO/MD/WTDs is one of the promoters / investors or directly 
related to the promoters, then the same will be governed by the 
provisions of SEBI (Issue of Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2002 as 
amended from time to time except those relating to pricing of shares. 
The manner of pricing of shares shall be disclosed upfront to the 
Authority. 
ii. In other cases, the same will be governed by the SEBl's ESOP 
guidelines. 
8. Sweat Equity: In case the shares of the insurance company are issued as 
Sweat Equity, then the same will be governed by the provisions of the Sweat 
Equity Regulations issued by SEBI. 
9. Variable pay -timing 
In case of deferral arrangements of variable pay, the deferral period should not 
be less than three years. Remuneration payable under deferral arrangements 
should vest no faster than on pro rata basis. 
10. Clawback 
i. In case of deferral remuneration, in the event of any negative trend in the 
parameters specified in para 4 and/or the relevant line of business in any 
year during the vesting period, any unvested / unpaid portions are to be 
clawed back. However, while exercising such provisions due consideration 
may be given to the actual/ realized performance of the insurer. 
9I Page ~

[Page 10]
ii. For legal enforceability, the claw back system shall be driven by 
observable and verifiable measures of risk outcomes. Insurers may put in 
place appropriate mechanism to incorporate claw back mechanism in 
respect of variable pay, linked to such parameters as are defined at para 4 
above. 
11. Guaranteed bonus 
i. Guaranteed bonuses are not consistent with sound risk management or 
the pay-for performance principles and should not be part of remuneration 
plan. Therefore, joining/ sign on bonus should only occur in the context of 
hiring new staff and be limited to first year. However, payment of such 
bonus may be made beyond the year of joining. 
ii. However, in case such guarantees are built in, payment thereof should be 
in the form of ESOPs only since payments in cash upfront would create 
perverse incentives and promote undue risk taking. 
iii. Insurers should not grant severance pay other than accrued benefits 
(gratuity, pension, etc.) to MD/ CEO/WTDs without the prior approval of 
the Board. It is clarified that severance pay does not include notice period 
pay. 
1.2. Disclosure and engagement by stakeholders: The following disclosures are 
mandated in the Annual Report. 
• Qualitative 
o Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration 
processes and the key features and objective of remuneration policy 
o Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into 
account in the remuneration processes. 
o Description of the ways in which the insurer seeks to link performance 
during a performance measurement period with levels of remuneration. 
J:-
10 I Page 
<

[Page 11]
• Quantitative disclosure : 
o Number of MD/ CEO/ WTDs having received a variable remuneration 
award during the financial year 
o Number and total amount of sign on awards made during the financial 
year 
o Details of guaranteed bonus, if any , paid as joining/ signing bonus 
o Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration, split into cash, 
shares and share linked instruments and other forms. 
o Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the financial year 
o Breakup of amount of remuneration awarded for the financial year to 
show fixed and variable, deferred and non-deferred. 
Accounting and renewal of remuneration: 
• No revision in remuneration shall be permitted till the expiry of one year 
from the date of earlier approval. 
• In case the annual remuneration of the MD/ CEO/ WTDs exceeds 
Rs.1.5Ocrore (including all perquisites plus bonuses etc., by whatsoever 
names), such excess shall be borne by the Shareholders' account. 
• No remuneration shall be paid to MD/CEO/WTDs by any of the promoter/ 
investor or by the group companies of the promoters'/ investors' 
com~7tes. 
~ -****-
HI Page
