[Page 1]
E,i,ld#fl 
ir.tai 
IRDA/F&A/GDL/LSTD/154/08/2016 
~Hfflll itlfT 1'4Pllliqf.fi 3ITT l'4f.fiitl ~ 
INSURANCE REGULATORY AND 
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF INDIA 
August 5, 2016 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Listed 
Indian Insurance Companies) Guidelines, 2016 
The Authority, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub (1) of Section 14 of Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India Act, 1999, read with clause (b) of sub­
section (4) of Section 6A of the Insurance Act, 1938, hereby, issues the following 
guidelines. 
1. Applicability: 
i. These Guidelines shall be in addition to, and should be read with any other 
law for the time being in force, including the IRDAI (Issuance of Capital by 
Indian Insurance Companies transacting Life Insurance Business) 
Regulations, 2015 and IRDAI (Issuance of Capital by Indian Insurance 
Companies transacting other than Life Insurance Business) Regulations, 
2015. 
ii. These Guidelines sh~II be called Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India (Listed Indian Insurance Companies) Guidelines, 2016 
iii. These Guidelines shall be applicable to all insurers whose equity shares are 
listed on the stock exchanges and to the allotment process pursuant to the 
public issue. 
iv. These guidelines shall come into effect on the day of their issuance. 
PART-A 
2. Definitions 
i. "Act" means Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938); 
ii. "Acquisition" means, directly or indirectly, acquiring or agreeing to acquire 
shares or voting rights in the concerned insurer; 
-qft,w:r \f<:R, cftmr c@, ~ . ~-500 004 . ~~~ Parisharam Bhavan, 3rd Floor, Basheer Bagh, Hyderabad-500 004. India. 
t :~~ -849-~~8 1100, m : 91-040-6682 3334 Ph.: 91-040-23381100, Fax: 91-040-6682 3334 
{-i@: irda@irda.gov.in ~ : www.irda.gov.in E-mail : irda@irda.gov.in Web.: www.irda.gov.in

[Page 2]
iii. "Authority" means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of 
India established under sub-section (1) of Section 3 of Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority Act, 1999 ( 41 of 1999); 
iv. "Aggregate Holding" means the total holding including through "acquisition" 
and the shares held by the applicant, his relatives, associate enterprises and 
persons acting in concert with him; 
v. "Associate enterprise" means a company, whether incorporated or not, 
which,-
a. is a holding company or a subsidiary company of the applicant; or 
b. is a joint venture of the applicant; or 
c. controls the composition of the Board of Directors or other body 
corporate governing the applicant; or 
d. exercises, in the opinion of the Authority, significant influence on the 
applicant in taking financial or policy decisions. 
vi. "Concerned Insurer" means the insurer in which the "acquisition" is being 
made; 
vii. "Person acting in concert" means persons who for a common objective or 
purpose of acquisition of shares or voting rights along with the applicant, 
pursuant to an agreement or understanding (formal or informal), directly or 
indirectly, cooperate for acquiring or agreeing to acquire shares or voting 
rights in the concerned insurer and without prejudice to the generality of the 
foregoing, includes an associate enterprise, relative, promoter, promoter 
group, and director of the said applicant or the associate enterprise; 
viii. "Relative" has the same meaning as defined in section 2 (77) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder; 
ix. "Major shareholder" means shareholder having or likely to have an 
"aggregate holding" to the extent of 5 percent or more of the paid up equity 
share capital of the insurer; 
x. "Major shareholding" means "aggregate holding" resulting in/ likely to result 
in the applicant acquiring 5 percent or more of the paid-up equity share 
capital of the insurer; 
~ \ 
21 Page

[Page 3]
xi. All words and expressions used herein and not defined, but defined in the 
Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938) or in the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999), or in any Rules or 
Regulations made thereunder, shall have the meaning respectively assigned 
to them in those Acts or Rules or Regulations. 
Chapter-II 
DIRECTIONS ON PRIOR APPROVAL 
3. Every person who intends to make any transfer or any agreement to transfer the 
paid up equity shares capital of the concerned insurer, may do so subject to 
compliance of the lock-in period requirement, if any, specified by the Authority. 
4. Every person who intends to make any transfer or any arrangement or agreement 
to transfer 1 percent or more but less than 5 percent of the paid up equity share 
capital of the concerned insurer, may do so, subject to compliance of Fit and 
Proper criteria. A self certification for "Fit & Proper" shall be filed with the 
respective insurance company. Such self-certification of the Fit and Proper criteria 
of the acquirer and filing with the concerned insurer shall be considered as 
deemed approval of the Authority for the purpose of Section 6A (4) (b) (iii) of the 
Act. If the concerned insurer has any doubt about the fulfillment of 'Fit and Proper' 
criteria by the acquirer, it may approach the Authority for seeking clarity. 
Such self certification shall be required to be filed once and for the first time when 
a purchaser / acquirer intends to purchase / acquire equity shares resulting in 
shareholding of 1 percent or more but less than 5%. For purchase/ acquisition of 
shares of the concerned insurer in the case of public offering, appropriate 
disclosure of this requirement shall be made in the offer document and 
appropriate declaration shall be obtained in the application form for purchasing 
such equity shares. 
5. Every person who intends to acquire or make an arrangement or agreement for 
acquisition which will / is likely to take the aggregate holding of such person 
together with shares held by him, his relatives, associate enterprises and persons 
acting in concert with him, to 5 per cent or more of the paid-up equity share 
capital of the concerned insurer or entitles him to exercise 5 per cent or more of 
3I Page ~

[Page 4]
the total voting rights of the concerned insurer, shall seek prior approval of the 
Authority in the manner specified in these guidelines. 
Procedure of Application 
6. Every person referred to in clause 5 above shall make an application to the 
Authority along with the Declaration in Form A specified in the Schedule to these 
Guidelines. The applicant shall also file draft of the definitive agreement(s) for 
acquisition of shares, if any, proposed to be entered into between the transferor 
and the acquirer, along with the application. 
7. The Authority may undertake due diligence on the applicant to assess his "fit and 
proper" status. It will be open to the Authority to seek additional information / 
documents from the applicant / concerned insurer, including but not limited to 
shareholders' agreements and make such enquiries with regulator/s , revenue 
authorities, investigation agencies, credit rating agencies, etc. as may be 
considered appropriate. 
8. The decision of the Authority to accord or deny permission for acquisition of a 
lower quantum than that has been applied for, shall be conveyed to the applicant 
and the concerned insurer, and the decision of the Authority shall be binding on 
the applicant and the concerned insurer. If the decision is to grant approval , the 
concerned insurer shall register the transfer / purchase, as the case may be, in 
the name of the applicant. If the decision is to reject the application, the 
concerned insurer shall not give effect to such acquisition. In the event of the 
Authority according permission for acquisition of lower quantum of equity shares 
or voting rights, the concerned insurer shall register the transfer/ purchase only 
to such lower quantum of shares or voting rights . 
CHAPTER - Ill 
PRIOR APPROVAL IN CASE OF SUBSEQUENT INCREASE IN SHAREHOLDING 
9. Any fresh acquisition by an existing major shareholder, who has already obtained 
prior approval of the Authority for having a major shareholding in the concerned 
insurer, shall be subject to the provisions of clauses 10 and 11 below as the case 
may be. 
~ / 
41 Page

[Page 5]
10. If any fresh acquisition referred to in clause 9 results in the aggregate holding of 
the major shareholder along with the persons acting in concert to reach upto 10 
per cent of the shares or voting rights of the concerned insurer, prior approval of 
the Authority is not necessary, 
Provided that the major shareholder furnishes the details of the source of funds 
for such incremental acquisition to the concerned insurer, before such acquisition. 
Provided further that the concerned insurer shall report the incremental 
acquisitions by the major shareholders in its quarterly shareholding pattern 
furnished to the Authority regarding continuance of "fit and proper" status of its 
major shareholders, as referred to in clause 13 of these Guidelines. 
11. Where the acquisition referred to in clause 9 results in the aggregate holding of 
the major shareholder along with the persons acting in concert exceeding 10 per 
cent of paid up equity share capital or voting rights of the concerned insurer, the 
applicant shall seek a fresh prior approval of the Authority for the proposed 
aggregate holding in the manner specified in clause 6 of these Guidelines along 
with additional information specified in Form A. Without prejudice to the 
generality of the factors that may determine the grant or refusal of approval for 
such acquisition by the Authority, approval for acquisition of shares or voting 
rights in excess of 10 per cent shall be considered at the discretion of the 
Authority taking into account the following factors : 
i. The details of the promoters/promoter group of the concerned insurer ;or 
ii. If the acquirer is a regulated financial institution, whether such a financial 
institution, is well diversified and listed in a Financial Action Task Force 
(FATF) compliant jurisdiction.; or 
iii. Whether the acquirer is a Government or a public sector undertaking; or 
iv. Existence of exceptional circumstances; or 
v. Whether acquisition is in the public interest; or 
vi. Whether acquisition shall ensure proper management of the concerned 
insurer; 
vii. Whether acquisition is in the interest of consolidation in the insurance 
sector; etc.~ \.r-,,..---
SI Page

[Page 6]
CHAPTER - IV 
DETERMINATION OF "FIT AND PROPER" STATUS 
12. Illustrative criteria for determining "fit and proper" status of applicants 
In determining whether the applicant is "fit and proper" to be a major shareholder, 
the Authority may take into account all relevant factors, as appropriate, including, 
but not limited to the following: 
i. For acquisition of 5 per cent or more upto 10 per cent in the concerned insurer 
ii. 
a) The applicant's integrity, reputation and track record in financial matters 
and compliance with tax laws; 
b) Whether the applicant has been subject of any proceedings of a serious 
disciplinary or criminal nature, or has been notified of any such impending 
proceedings or of any investigation which may lead to such proceedings; 
c) Whether the applicant has a record or evidence of previous business conduct 
and activities where the applicant has been convicted for an offence under 
any legislation designed to protect members of the public from financial loss 
due to dishonesty, incompetence or malpractice; 
d) Whether the applicant or persons acting in concert or any of its promoters or 
promoter group has indulged in insider trading, fraudulent and unfair trade 
practices or market manipulation; 
e) Whether the applicant has achieved a satisfactory outcome as a result of 
due diligence conducted with the relevant regulator, revenue authorities, 
investigation agencies and credit rating agencies etc., as considered 
appropriate; 
f) Whether the applicant has a record of any serious financial misconduct , bad 
loans or whether the applicant was adjudged to be bankrupt; 
g) The source of funds for the acquisition; 
h) Where the applicant is a body corporate, its track record or reputation for 
operating in a manner that is consistent with the standards of good 
corporate governance, financial strength and integrity in addition to the 
assessment of individuals and other entities holding more than 1 percent of 
the capital of the body corporate as enumerated above. 
For acquisition in excess of 10 per cent in the concerned insurer 
a) All aspects as laid down in clause 12 (i) of these Guidelines; 
GI Page ~ ~

[Page 7]
b) Details in respect of the conglomerate, in case the applicant belongs to a 
conglomerate group; 
c) Sources and stability of funds for acquisition and the ability to access 
financial markets as a source of continuing financial support for the insurer 
d) The business record and experience of the applicant including any 
experience in acquisition of business; 
e) The extent to which the corporate structure of the applicant will be in 
consonance with effective supervision and regulation of the insurer; 
f) Whether the applicant is a widely held entity , publicly listed and a well­
established regulated financial entity in good standing in the financial 
community; 
g) Whether the applicant is a Government or a public sector undertaking; 
h) The acquisition is in public interest ; 
i) The acquisition is to secure the proper management of any insurer ; 
j) The desirability of diversified ownership of insurer; 
k) Track record of the applicant; 
I) Shareholder agreements and their impact on control and management of 
the insurer. 
CHAPTER-V 
CONTINUOUS MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS 
Continuous monitoring arrangements for due diligence in case of existing major 
shareholders 
13. It is the responsibility of the concerned insurer to ensure that all its major 
shareholders are fit and proper and for this purpose every insurer shall, 
i. obtain, within one month of the close of financial year, an annual declaration 
from all its major shareholders in Form B as specified in the Schedule to 
these Guidelines: and 
ii. deliberate on the declarations, obtained from the major shareholders, at its 
Board meetings and make an assessment about the "fit and proper" status 
of such shareholders in the light of information provided through the 
declarations and its own investigations ; and 
h 
71 Page

[Page 8]
iii. furnish a certificate, within 2 months from the end of the each financial year, 
to the Authority regarding continuance of the "fit and proper" status of all its 
major shareholders. In case any major shareholder is assessed to be not "fit 
and proper", the concerned insurer shall report the same immediately in 
Form C specified in the Schedule to these Guidelines to the Authority. 
Apart from the annual review as specified in the above clause, every insurer 
shall examine any concern / information regarding the major shareholders that 
may come to its notice that could render such shareholders not "fit and proper" 
to hold such shares or voting rights and the insurer shall immediately furnish the 
report on the same to the Authority. 
If the major shareholders do not satisfy the "fit and proper" criteria within 6 
months of the close of financial year, then the Authority shall initiate appropriate 
action against such major shareholder , as it deems fit , including a direction for 
such shareholder to transfer its shareholding to any other 'Fit and Proper' 
person. 
CHAPTER -VI 
Controlling Interest in Insurers 
ACQUISITION OF SHARES / VOTING RIGHTS FOR THE PURPOSE OF GAINING 
CONTROLLING INTEREST IN AN INSURER 
14. Notwithstanding anything contained in these guidelines, even when the 
acquisition / aggregate holding is proposed to be less than 5 per cent and if the 
concerned insurer suspects that dubious methods have been adopted to get over 
the ceiling of 5 per cent to camouflage the real purpose of these Guidelines by 
individuals / groups with a view to acquire controlling interest in the insurer, a 
reference shall be made to the Authority by the concerned insurer. In such cases, 
it shall be in order for the Authority to require such shareholders to comply with 
the procedure referred to in Chapter Ill and IV of these Guidelines. 
~~. 
SI Page

[Page 9]
CHAPTER - VI I 
COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS AND VOTING RIGHTS 
15. The prior approval from the Authority for having major shareholding by a foreign 
investor or any subsidiary thereof, in the insurer will be subject to compliance 
with FEMA 1999 and other applicable laws and regulations, by the acquirer / 
Investor. 
16. It is clarified that an insurer who is neither listed nor to be listed shall continue to 
be governed by the provisions of IRDAI (Transfer of Equity shares of Insurers) 
Regulations, 2015. 
PART-8 
SHAREHOLDING AND VOTING RIGHTS LIMITS IN INSURERS 
17. The minimum shareholding by promoters/ promoter group shall at all times be 
maintained at 50 percent of the paid up equity capital of the insurer. However, 
where the present holding of the promoters is below 50 percent, such holding 
shall be the minimum holding. 
18. Ownership limits for all shareholders, other than promoters/ promoter group, in 
a definitive time frame as may be specified by the Authority, shall be based on 
categorization of the shareholders under two broad categories viz. (i) natural 
persons (individuals) and (ii) legal persons (entities/institutions). Further, non­
financial and financial institutions, and among financial institutions, diversified 
and non-diversified financial institutions shall have separate limits for 
shareholding as under: 
(i) In the case of individuals and non-financial entities, the limit shall be 10 per 
cent of the paid up capital; 
(ii) In the case of entities from the financial sector, other than regulated or 
diversified or listed, t>I; at 15 per cent of the paid-up capital; 
9I Page

[Page 10]
(ii i) In the case of 'regulated , diversified , listed entities from the financial sector ' 
or public sector undertaking or Government , a uniform limit up to 30 per cent 
of the paid-up capital is permitted for non-promoters ; 
(iv) Higher stake / strategic investment by non-promoters through capital 
infusion by domestic or foreign entities/ institution shall be permitted on a 
case to case basis under circumstances such as relinquishment by existing 
promoters, rehabilitation / restructuring of problem / weak insurers / 
entrenchment of existing promoters or in the interest of the insurance 
company or in the interest of consolidation in the insurance sector , etc. 
The matrix of shareholding is as under 
Category of Promoter All shareholders in the long run (Except Promoters) 
shareholder group 
Sub-category All categories Natural Legal person 
of shareholder of Promoter / person Non Financial institution 
Promoter financial *Non- Regulated, # 
group institution regulated diversified and Circumstances 
(minimum )** / entities or non- listed I as mentioned 
diversified supranational in para 2 (iv) of 
and non- institution I Part B above 
listed public sector 
undertaking I 
Government 
Proposed 50 percent 10 10 15 30 percent As · permitted 
sharehold ing percent percent percent on a case 
cap case basis 
*In case of financial institutions that are owned to the extent of 40 per cent or more or controlled by 
individuals, the shareholding would be deemed to be by a natural person and the shareholding will be 
capped at IO per cent; 
**Promoter includes Indian promoter and also includes a foreign investor who has taken a stake in the 
insurance company in such capacity. 
#Shareholders permitted JO per cent or more in an insurance company will be subject to a minimum lock-in 
period of five years. 
10 I Page 
to

[Page 11]
PART-C 
Foreign Holding and Other requirements 
19. Every insurance company which intends to go for listing shall convert its equity 
shareholding in Demat format. Every insurance company shall submit necessary 
documentary proof to this effect. 
20. An Insurer may invest in the equity share capital of another listed Insurer or in the 
public issue pursuant to RHDP filed by an insurer subject to the exposure norms 
as specified in IRDA (Investment) Regulations, 2000 as amended from time to 
time. 
21. As per IRDAI (Registration of Indian Insurance Companies) Regulations, 2000, 
subsidiary of a company shall not be allowed to invest in an insurance company. 
However, for the purpose of these Guidelines, the Authority permits a subsidiary 
company to invest in a listed insurance company, provided it complies with all the 
provisions as may be applicable for such an investment under applicable laws. 
22. Every listed Insurance company shall put in place necessary systems to ensure 
compliance of Regulation 11 of IRDAI (Registration of Indian Insurance 
Companies) Regulations, 2000. 
23. Every Insurance company shall ensure that: 
i. the foreign investment in the Insurance company at any point of time is in 
accordance with the limits allowed under the Insurance Act, 1938 read with 
the Foreign Direct Investment Policy of India and the provisions of FEMA 
1999;and 
ii. the company is compliant with "Indian owned and controlled" Guidelines 
issued by the Authority. 
24. The above guidelines shall also be applicable to an insurance intermediary 
registered by the Authority provided that such insurance intermediary is drawing 
more than 50 percent of its revenue from insurance related business. 
111 Page

[Page 12]
,,, Form A 
(See Para 6 of the Guidelines) 
Declaration to be submitted by the applicants intending to acquire major shareholding 
in an insurer 
Name of the insurer in which acquisition is sought: 
Registration No. 
s. Particular Remarks 
No. 
I. Information to be submitted by the applicant for acquisition of shares or voting right! 
to the extent of 5% or more upto 10% in the insurer 
1 Name of the applicant (including previous names, if 
any) 
2 Name of the father of the applicant/ main individual 
promoter behind the applicant 
3 Present address of the applicant 
4 Permanent address of the applicant 
5 Citizenship and Resident status if the applicant is an 
individual / ownership and control status if the 
applicant is an entity (as per FEMA) 
6 Occupation of the applicant/ Nature of business of 
the entity 
7 Shareholding pattern if the applicant is an entity 
8 Details of "acquisition" by the applicant and 
"aggregate holding" in the insurer (name, 
12 I Page

[Page 13]
s. 
No. 
9 
10 
11 
12 
1.3 
14 
15 
Particular 
shareholding in Rs. (in lakhs) and %) 
a) List of "relatives" of the applicant 
b) List of "persons acting in concert" with the 
applicant 
C) List of "associate enterprises" 
The list should contain details of name, net worth, 
total assets, credit rating, shareholding (if any) in the 
insurer in Rs. (in lakhs) and % 
Source of funds for acquisition of the shares/ voting 
rights in the insurer (Duly certified by a Chartered 
Accountant) 
Total net worth, profitability and average income of 
the applicant over the last 5 years (Duly certified by a 
Chartered Accountant) 
In case of acquisition of voting rights, the details of 
agreement in brief and consideration paid for such 
agreement, if any 
Has the applicant, or any of the persons listed in 9 
above been adjudged bankrupt at any time 
If the applicant, or any of the persons listed in 9 
above is a member of a professional association / 
body, details of disciplinary action, if any, pending or 
commenced or resulting in conviction in the past 
against him / her or whether he / she has been 
banned from entry into any profession / occupation 
at any time 
Has the applicant or any of the persons at 9 above 
been subject to any investigation at the instance of 
13I Page 
Remarks

[Page 14]
s. 
No. 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
Particular 
any Government department or agency? 
Details of prosecution, if any, pending or commenced 
or resulting in conviction in the past against the 
applicant , or persons listed in 9 above for violation of 
economic laws, tax laws and regulations 
Details of serious disciplinary or criminal prosecution , 
if any, pending or commenced or resulting in 
conviction in the past against the applicant , or 
persons listed in 9 above 
Has the applicant , or persons listed in 9 above at any 
time been found guilty of violation of rules / 
regulations / legislative requirements by customs / 
excise / income tax/ foreign exchange/ companies 
act/ other revenue authorities , if so give particulars 
Whether any qualification , reservation or adverse 
remark on the books and accounts and financial 
statements was made by the auditors in their report 
in respect of the applicant and/ or entities listed in 
para 9 above, during the past five financial years 
Whether the applicant , or persons listed in 9 above 
has at any time come to the adverse notice of any 
regulator/ revenue authorities/ investigative agency 
including issuance of Show Cause Notice. (Though it 
shall not be necessary for a person to mention in the 
column about orders and findings made by regulators 
which have been later on reversed / set aside in toto , 
it would be necessary to make a mention of the 
same, in case the reversal / setting aside is on 
technical reasons like limitation or lack of 
jurisdiction, etc., and not on merit. If the order of the 
regulator is temporarily stayed and the appellate / 
14 I Page 
Remarks

[Page 15]
s. 
No. 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
Particular 
court proceedings are pending, the same also should 
be mentioned). 
Whether the applicant, or persons listed in 9 above 
has been convicted for any offence under any 
legislation designed to protect members of the public 
from financial loss due to dishonesty, incompetence 
or malpractice. 
Whether any other person has beneficial interest in 
the proposed acquisition (if applicable) 
Details of shareholding / voting rights of the 
applicant in other insurers and other institutions in 
the financial sector 
If the applicant is a regulated entity, names and 
addresses of the regulators of the applicant in India 
and abroad 
Whether any regulatory action has been taken 
against the applicant or persons listed in 9 above, in 
any other country 
Details of the applicant and persons / entities at 9 
above regarding - date of birth / incorporation, 
Registered Office address, nature of business activity, 
PAN no., TAN No., CIN No. / DIN No., income tax 
circle, name of the regulator, type of registration with 
SEBI, bank, branch and account number (including 
credit facilities and non-fund based facilities), net 
worth, total assets. (May be given in a separate 
annexure). 
Income Tax returns and financial statements of the 
applicant for the last three years 
15 I Page 
Remarks

[Page 16]
s. 
No. 
Particular 
28 Any other explanation / information in regard to 
items above considered relevant for judging "fit and 
proper" status of the applicant and entities listed in 9 
Remarks 
II. Additional information to be submitted by the applicants intending to acquire share~ 
or voting rights to the extent of more than 10 % in the insurer 
29 Whether the applicant is a financial sector entity or 
Government/ public sector undertaking 
30 
31 
32 
33 
In case the applicant belongs to a conglomerate 
Group, name and details of the group it belongs to 
Whether the applicant is listed , if yes, at which stock 
exchanges and the extent of public shareholding 
Details of capital raised by the applicant during the 
past 5 years 
The following documents/ details to be attached, as 
applicable: 
a) List of entities which hold 10% or more of the 
paid-up share capital of the applicant 
b) list of HUFs where the applicant or his family 
member is a member/ karta 
c) List of entities in which the HUF at (b) above is 
holding 10% or more of the paid-up share 
capital of that entity 
d) List of entities in which the applicant is holding 
10% or more of the paid-up share capital of 
such entities 
e) entities, if any, in which the applicant is 
considered as being interested [Refer Section 
16 I Page

[Page 17]
s. 
No. 
34 
35 
36 
37 
Particular 
184 of Companies Act, 2013] 
f) entities where there are common shareholders 
of the applicant who collectively hold 20% or 
more of the paid-up share capital of the 
applicant 
g) associates of the applicant 
h) related parties of the applicant 
i) entities in which the collective shareholding, by 
the applicant and persons / entities in 9 and 
from (a) to (h) above, is 10% or more of the 
paid-up share capital of that entity 
j) entities in which persons / entities named in 9 
and from (a) to (i) above have individually or 
collectively divested their shareholding in the 
past 5 years 
Details of "acquisition" and "aggregate holding" by 
persons / entities in 9 and 30 above (details of -
name, shareholding in Rs. (in lakhs) and %) 
Has the applicant, or any of the entities listed in 30 
above been adjudged bankrupt at any time 
If any of the entities listed in 30 above is a member 
of a professional association / body, details of 
disciplinary action, if any, pending or commenced or 
resulting in conviction in the past against him/ her or 
whether he / she has been banned from entry of at 
any profession/ occupation at any time 
Have any of the entities at 30 above been subject to 
any investigation at the instance of Government 
17 I Page 
Remarks

[Page 18]
s. 
No. 
38 
39 
40 
41 
42 
Particular 
department or agency? 
Details of prosecution, if any, pending or commenced 
or resulting in conviction in the past against the 
entities listed in 30 above for violation of economic 
laws and regulations 
Have any of the entities in 30 above at any time been 
found guilty of violation of rules / regulations / 
legislative requirements by Customs / Excise / 
Income tax / Foreign exchange / Companies Act / 
other revenue authorities, if so give particulars 
Whether any of the entities at 30 above has at any 
time come to the adverse notice of any regulator / 
revenue authorities / investigative agency including 
issuance of Show Cause Notice. (Though it shall not 
be necessary for a person to mention in the column 
about orders and findings made by regulators which 
have been later on reversed / set aside in toto, it 
would be necessary to make a mention of the same , 
in case the reversal / setting aside is on technical 
reasons like limitation or lack of jurisdiction , etc, and 
not on merit. If the order of the regulator is 
temporarily stayed and the appellate / court 
proceedings are pending , the same also should be 
mentioned) 
Whether any of the entities at 30 above has been 
convicted for any offence under any legislation 
designed to protect members of the public from 
financial loss due to dishonesty, incompetence or 
malpractice 
Deta.ils of serious disciplinary or criminal prosecution, 
if any, pending or commenced or resulting in 
18 I Page 
Remarks

[Page 19]
5. Particular Remarks 
No. 
conviction in the past against the applicant , or 
entities listed in 30 above 
43 Whether the app licant intends to have a Board 
representation in the Insurer 
44 Details of representation of the applicant on the 
Boards of other insurers and other institutions in the 
financial secto r 
45 Balance sheets of the major entities from 9 and 30 
above (covering at least 50% of the group 's total 
assets) in the group for the last three years 
46 The business record and experience of the applicant 
including any experience of acquis ition of companies 
/ business 
47 Brief details of shareholder agreemen ts 
48 Reasons for acquiring a stake or voting rights in the 
insurer 
49 Any other explanation / information in regard to 
items above considered relevant for judging "fit and 
proper " status of the entities listed in 30 above 
Undertaking 
I confirm that the above information is to the best of my knowledge and belief , true and 
complete . I undertake to keep the insurer fully informed , as soon as possible , of all 
events which take place subsequent to submission of this declaration which are 
relevant to the information provided above. 
Place: 
Date : 
19 I Page 
Signature of the applicant / 
Authorized Signatory with common seal, if any

[Page 20]
Form B 
[See Para 13(i) of the Guidelines] 
Annual declaration (as on March 31 every year) to be furnished to the insurer by all the 
existing "major shareholders" of the insurer 
Name of the insurer: 
S. No. Description Particulars 
1. Name of the major shareholder 
2. Address of the major shareholder 
3. Occupation of the major shareholder(in 
case of individuals) 
4. Total number of shares / extent of 
voting rights held by the major 
shareholder in the insurer 
5. Date/s of acquisition of shareholding/ 
voting rights in the insurer in the past 5 
years 
6. Details of regulatory actions against 
the major shareholder and entities as 
per 9 and 31 of Form A above by 
regulators in India or abroad, during 
the financial year 
7. Whether there have been any criminal 
proceedings against the major 
shareholder and entities as per 9 and 
30 of Form A above during the 
financial year, if so, details thereof. 
8. Whether there have been any civil 
proceedings against the major 
shareholder and entities as per 9 and 
30 of Form A above during the 
20 I Page

[Page 21]
S. No. 
9. 
Description Particulars 
financial year, if so, details thereof. 
Change of ownership of the major 
shareholder in the financial year (in 
case of entities), if any 
Signature of the applicant/ 
Authorized Signatory with common seal, if any 
21 I Page

[Page 22]
Form C 
Information to be furnished by the Insurer to the Authority in respect of existing "major 
shareholder" who is assessed not "fit and proper" 
(See Para 13(iii) of the Guidelines) 
Name of the insurer : 
S.No. Description Particulars 
1. Name of the major shareholder 
2. Address of the major shareholder 
3. Occupation of the major shareholder (in case 
of individuals) 
4. Total number of shares / extent of voting 
rights held by the major shareholder in the 
insurer 
5. Date/s of acquisition of shareholding/ voting 
rights in the insurer 
6. Details of regulatory actions against the 
major shareholder and entities as per para 9 
and 30 of Form A above, by regulators in 
India or abroad, during the financial year 
7. Whether there have been any criminal 
proceedings against the major shareholder 
and entities as per para 9 and 30 of Form A 
above during the financial year, if so, details 
thereof. 
8. Whether there have been any civil 
proceedings against the major shareholder 
and entities as per para 9 and 30 of Form A 
above during the financial year, if so, details 
22 I Page

[Page 23]
S.No. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
Description Particulars 
thereof . 
Change of ownership of the major 
shareholder during the financial year (in 
case of entities) , if any 
Outcome of the due diligence exercise 
conducted by the insurer (wherever 
applicable) 
Any other information that has come to the 
notice of the insurer which has a bearing on 
the major shareholder 's "fit and proper " 
status 
Signature of t he applicant/ 
Authorized Signatory with common seal, if any 
23 I Page
