[Page 1]
Ref: IRDAI/IID/GDL/MISC/160/8/2022                                 Date: 1st August 2022 
To,  
All Insurers     
                
Re: Master Guidelines on Anti-Money Laundering/ Counter Financing of 
Terrorism (AML/CFT), 2022 
IRDAI had issued Master Guidelines on AML/CFT for General insurers and 
Life insurers in 2013 and 2015 respectively. Subsequently, multiple circulars had 
been issued on the subject. 
2. In order to consolidate and update guidelines on AML/ CFT, a single Master 
Guidelines covering provisions of PML Act, R ules and other applicable norms 
(as amended from time to time) is issued.  
3. The guidelines are applicable to all classes of Life, General or Hea lth 
insurance business.   
 
4. The guidelines will come into force from 1st November 2022.  
 
 
-Sd/- 
Randip Singh Jagpal 
(Executive Director)

[Page 2]
MASTER GUIDELINES ON ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING/ COUNTER FINANCING OF 
TERRORISM (AML/CFT), 2022 
 
Date: 1st Aug 2022 
Ref: IRDAI/IID/GDL/MISC/160/8/2022

[Page 3]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 1 
 
Ref: IRDAI/IID/GDL/MISC/160/8/2022     Date: 1st Aug 2022 
 
To,  
All the Insurers 
Re: Master Guidelines on Anti-Money Laundering/Counter Financing of Terrorism 
(AML/CFT), 2022 
 
1. Introduction 
 
1.1. In terms of the pr ovisions of Prevention of Money  Laundering Act, 2002  
(PMLA/PML Act/Act and the Prevention of Money - Laundering (Maintenance of 
records) Rules, 2005  (PML Rules/Rules)  (as amended from time to time), 
insurers are required to follow Customer Identification Procedures while 
undertaking a tr ansaction at the time of establishing an account based 
relationship/ client based relationship and monitor their transaction s on -going 
basis. 
 
1.2. Insurers shall take steps to implement provisions of PML Act and the PML 
Rules, as amended from time to time, including operational instructions issued in 
pursuance of such amendment(s). 
 
1.3. The obligation to establish an anti-money laundering program applies to insurers 
as per provisions of clause (ii) and (iii) sub rule (14) of Rule 9 of the PML Rules. 
Insurers have responsibility for  guarding  against  insurance  products  and 
services being used to launder unlawfully derived funds or to  finance terrorist 
acts. 
 
1.4. Money Laundering is a process or activity of moving illegally acquired money 
through financial systems so  that it appears to be legally acquired. Section 3 of 
PMLA specifies the Offence of Money Laundering. 
 
2. Short Title, Applicability and Commencement 
 
2.1. These guidelines shall be called as M aster Guidelines on Anti -Money 
Laundering/Counter Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) for all the insurers. These 
guidelines are issued by exercising the power enshrined under Section 34 of 
Insurance Act, 1938, Section 14(1) of Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority Act 1999 and provisions 4,5,7,9, 9A & 10 of the PML Rules. 
 
2.2. These Guidelines would be applicable for all class of Life, General or Health

[Page 4]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 2 
 
Insurance business carried out by the „Insurers‟ except Re -insurance business 
carried out by the „Indian Insurance company‟ or „foreign company‟ in India. 
 
2.3. These guidelines would come into force from 1st November 2022. 
 
3. Definitions 
In these guidelines, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms herein shall bear 
the meanings assigned to them as below: 
 
3.1. “Aadhaar number", shall have the meaning assigned to it u nder clause(a) of 
section 2 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, 
Benefits and Services) Act, 2016, hereinafter referred to as „The Aadhaar Act‟. 
 
3.2. “Authentication”, means the process as defined under clause (c) of section  2 of 
the Aadhaar Act as amended from time to time. 
 
3.3. “Beneficial owner” shall have the meaning assigned to it under sub clause  (fa) of 
clause (1) of Section 2 of the PML Act. 
 
3.4. “Central KYC Records Registry” (CKYCR) means an entity defined under clause 
(ac) of sub rule (1) of Rule 2 of the PML Rules, to receive, store, safeguard and 
retrieve the KYC records in digital form of a customer. 
 
3.5. “Client” shall have the meaning assigned to it under sub clause (ha) of clause (1) 
of Section 2 of the PML Act. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this guideline, the term client includes a 
customer/ person (Natural or Juridical) who may be a proposer or policyholder or 
master policyholder or life assured or beneficiaries or assignees, as the case 
may be. 
 
3.6. “Client Due Diligence”  (CDD) shall have the meaning assigned to it under sub 
clause (b) of clause (1) of Rule 2 of the PML Rules. 
 
3.7. “Designated Director" shall have the meaning assigned to it under sub clause 
(ba) of clause (1) of Rule 2 of the PML Rules. 
 
3.8. “Digital KYC” shall ha ve the meaning assigned to it under sub clause (bba) of 
clause (1) of Rule 2 of the PML Rules. 
 
3.9. “KYC Templates” means templates prepared to facilitate collating and reporting 
the KYC data to the CKYCR, for individuals and legal entities.

[Page 5]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 3 
 
3.10. “KYC Records” shall have the meaning assigned to it under sub clause (cd) of 
clause (1) of Rule 2 of the PML Rules. 
 
3.11. “Offline verification” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause 
(pa) of section 2 of the Aadhaar Act. 
 
3.12. “On-going Due Diligence” means regular monitoring of transactions to ensure 
that they are consistent with the customers‟ profile and source of funds. 
 
3.13. "Officially valid document" shall have the meaning assigned to it under sub 
clause (d) of clause (1) of Rule 2 of the PML Rules. 
 
3.14. “Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs)” shall have the meaning assigned to it 
under sub clause (xii) of 3(b) of Chapter I of Master Direction – Know Your 
Customer (KYC) Direction, 2016 issued by Reserve Bank of India (RBI), as 
amended from time to time.  
 
3.15. “Principal Officer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under sub clause (f) of 
clause (1) of Rule 2 of the PML Rules. 
 
3.16. “Suspicious Transaction” shall have the meaning assigned to it under sub 
clause (g) of clause (1) of Rule 2 of the PML Rules. 
 
3.17. “Video Based Ide ntification Process (VBIP)”  means an alternative 
(optional)electronic process of Identification/ KYC in paperless form, carried out 
by the insurer/authorised person (person authorised by the insurer and 
specifically trained for face -to-face VBIP) by undert aking seamless, secure, real -
time, consent based audio -visual interaction with the customer/beneficiary to 
obtain identification information including the necessary KYC documents required 
for the purpose of client due diligence and to ascertain the veracit y of the 
information furnished by the customer/ beneficiary. 
 
3.18. Words and expressions used and not defined in these guidelines but defined in 
the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938), Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999),the PML A ct, the  PML Rules, the Aadhaar Act, 
Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 shall have the meanings respectively 
assigned to them in those Acts, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines issued under 
those Acts, as the case may be.

[Page 6]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 4 
 
4. Internal policies, procedures, controls and compliance arrangement 
 
4.1. Every Insurer has to establish and implement policies, procedures, and internal 
controls that effectively serve to prevent and impede Money Laundering (ML) 
and Terrorist Financing (TF). 
 
4.2. To be in compliance with these obligations, the senior management of insurers 
shall be fully committed to establishing appropriate policies and procedures for 
the prevention of ML and TF and ensuring their effectiveness and compliance 
with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements. The insurers shall: 
 
4.2.1. Develop an AML/CFT program comprising of policies and procedures, for 
dealing with ML and TF reflecting the current statutory and regulatory 
requirements. 
 
4.2.2. Ensure that the content of these guidelines are understood by all staff 
members/agents. Develop staff members‟/agents‟ awareness and 
vigilance to guard against ML and TF. 
 
4.2.3. The AML/CFT program should have the approval of the insurer‟s board.  
The program should be reviewed periodically on the basis of risk 
exposure and suitable changes (if any) be effected based on experience 
and to comply with the extant Act / Rules / Regulations and other 
applicable norms. 
 
4.2.4. Adopt client acceptance policies and procedures which are sensitive to 
the risk of ML and TF. 
 
4.2.5. Undertake CDD measures to an extent that is sensitive to the risk of ML 
and TF depending on the type of client, business relationship or 
transaction. 
 
4.2.6. Have in place a system for identifying, monitoring and reporting 
suspected ML or TF transactions to FIU -IND and the law enfor cement 
authorities (if so required). 
 
4.3. Policies and procedures set under AML/CFT program shall cover: 
 
4.3.1. Communication of policies relating to prevention of ML and TF to all level 
of management and relevant staff that handle policyholder‟s information 
(whether in branches or departments) in all the offices of the insurer;

[Page 7]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 5 
 
 
4.3.2. The Client Due Diligence Program including policies, controls and 
procedures, approved by the senior management, to enable the insurers 
to manage and mitigate the risk that have been identified either by the 
insurers or through national risk assessment. 
4.3.3. Maintenance of records; 
 
4.3.4. Compliance with relevant statutory and regulatory requirements; 
 
4.3.5. Co-operation with the relevant  law  enforcement  authorities, including 
the timely disclosure of information; 
 
4.3.6. Role of internal audit or compliance function to ensure compliance with 
the policies, procedures and controls relating to the  prevention of ML and 
TF, including the testing of the system for detecting suspected money 
laundering transactio ns, evaluating  and  checking the adequacy of 
exception reports generated  on  large  and/or irregular transactions, the 
quality of reporting of suspicious transactions and the level of awareness 
of front line staff, of their responsibilities in this regar d. The internal audit 
function shall be independent, adequately resourced and commensurate  
with the  size of the business and operations, organization structure, 
number of clients and other such factors. 
 
4.4. Responsibility of Insurers: 
 
The guidelines place the responsibility of a robust AML/CFT program on the 
insurers. Nonetheless, it is necessary that the following steps are taken to 
strengthen the level of control on the intermediaries/representative of insurer 
engaged by the insurers:  
4.4.1. The list of rules and regulations covering performance of intermediaries 
/representative of insurer must be put in place. A clause should be added 
making KYC norms mandatory and specific process document can be 
included as part of the contracts.  
 
4.4.2. Insurers shall initiate appropriate actions against defaulting intermediaries 
/representative of insurer who expose the insurers to AML/CFT related 
risks on multiple occasions.  
 
4.4.3. As most part of the insurance business is through intermediaries 
/representative of insurers, the selection process of intermediaries

[Page 8]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 6 
 
/representative of insurer should be monitored scrupulously in view of set 
AML/CFT measures. 
 
4.5. Compliance Certificate:  
 
Insurers shall submit annual compliance certificate as provided in Annexure I 
within 45 days of end of Financial Year. 
 
5. Appointment of a Designated Director and a Principal Officer 
 
5.1. A “Designated Director”, who has to ensure overall compliance with the 
obligations imposed under chapter IV of the PML Act and the PML Rules, shall 
be appointed or designated by the insurers. 
 
5.2. A Principal Officer (PO) at a senior level shall be appointed to ensure 
compliance with the obligations imposed under chapter IV of the Act and the 
Rules.  
 
5.3. The contact details with mobile number and email id of th e Designated Director 
and the Principal Officer or any changes thereon shall be communicated to 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and FIU -IND 
within 7 days of its effect. 
 
5.4. In terms of Section 13 of the PMLA, the Director, FIU -IND can take appropriate 
action, including imposing  a monetary  penalty  on  insurers  or its Designated 
Director or any of its employees for failure to comply with any of its AML/CFT 
obligations. 
 
6. Recruitment and Training 
 
6.1. Adequate screening mechanism as  an integral part of their personnel 
recruitment/hiring process shall be put in place. 
 
6.2. On-going training programme shall be put in place so that the members of staff 
are adequately trained in AML/CFT policy. The focus of the training shall be 
different fo r frontline staff, compliance staff, staff dealing with new customers 
and claims. The front line staff shall be specially trained to handle issues arising 
from lack of customer education. Proper staffing of the audit function with 
persons adequately trained and well-versed in AML/CFT policies of the insurers, 
guideline and related issues shall be ensured.

[Page 9]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 7 
 
 
7. Internal Control/Audit 
 
Internal audit/inspection department of insurers shall periodically verify compliance 
with the extant policies, procedures and controls related to money laundering 
activities on the basis of overall risk assessment. Insurers shall also upgrade its 
questionnaire and system from time -to-time in accordance with the extant PMLA 
and PML Rules. The reports should specifically comment on the robustness of the 
internal policies and processes in this regard and make constructive suggestions 
where necessary, to stren gthen the policy and implementation aspects. Insurers 
shall submit audit notes and compliance to the Audit Committee.  
 
8. Know Your Customer (KYC) Norms 
 
8.1. What are KYC Norms? 
 
8.1.1. Considering the potential threat of usage of the insurance services by a 
money launderers, insurers should make best efforts to determine the true 
identity of customer(s). 
 
8.1.2. Effective procedures should be put in place to obtain requisite details for 
proper identification of new/ existing customer(s). Special care has to be 
exercised to ensure that the  contracts  are not under anonymous or 
fictitious names. 
 
8.1.3. Where a client is a juridical person, insurers shall take steps to identify the 
client and its beneficial owner(s) and take all reasonable measures to verify 
his/her identity to their satisfaction so as to establish the beneficial 
ownership. Procedures for determination of Beneficial Ownership shall be 
as prescribed in sub rule (3) of Rule 9 of PML Rules. 
 
8.1.4. While implementing the KYC norms on juridical persons, insurers will have 
to identify and verify their legal status through various documents 
(indicated, but not limited t o, at sub -rule (6) to (9) of rule 9 of the PML 
Rules ), to be collected in support of 
 
8.1.4.1. The name, legal form, proof of existence, 
8.1.4.2. Powers that regulate and bind the juridical persons, 
8.1.4.3. Address of the registered office/ main place of business, 
8.1.4.4. Authorized individual person(s), who is/ are purporting to act on 
behalf of such client, and

[Page 10]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 8 
 
8.1.4.5. Ascertaining Beneficial Owner(s) 
No reporting entity shall allow the opening of or keep any anonymous 
account or account in fictitious names or account on behalf of other 
persons whose identity has not been disclosed or cannot be verified. 
 
8.1.5. While implementing the KYC norms on juridical person other than those 
mentioned in sub -rule (6) to (9) of rule 9 of the PML Rules , insurers shall 
verify  that  any person purporting  to ac t  on behalf of such client is so  
authorised and verify the identity of that person. 
 
8.1.6. Where a client is an individual person, insurers shall verify the identity, 
address and recent photograph in order to comply with provision as 
specified in sub rule (4) of Rule 9 of the PML Rules. 
 
A list of documents to be verified and collected under KYC norms for 
individuals is given in sub-rule (4) and (18) of rule 9 of the PML Rules. 
  
No further documentation is necessary for proof of residence where the 
document of  identity submitted also includes the proof of 
residence/address. 
 
Where a customer submits Aadhaar for identification and wants to provide 
current address different from the address available in the Central Identities 
Data Repository, the customer may giv e a self- declaration to that effect to 
the insurer. 
 
Under Individual Policies, those individuals who are not able to undergo 
Aadhaar Authentication due to any injury, illness or old age or otherwise, or 
they do not wish to go for Aadhaar  Authentication, they may submit their 
Officially Valid Documents (OVDs) at the time of commencement of 
Account based relationship. 
 
8.1.7. Insurers may perform KYC process by any of the following methods: 
8.1.7.1. Aadhaar based KYC through Online Authentication subject t o 
notification by the Government under section 11A of PMLA   Or 
8.1.7.2. Aadhaar based KYC through offline verification Or 
8.1.7.3. Digital KYC as per PML Rules  Or 
8.1.7.4. Video Based Identification Process (VBIP) as consent based 
alternate method of establishing the customer‟s id entity, for 
customer. The process of VBIP has been specified in Annexure 
II.  Or

[Page 11]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 9 
 
8.1.7.5. By using „KYC identifier‟ allotted to the client by the CKYCR Or 
8.1.7.6. By using Officially Valid documents  
AND 
8.1.7.7. PAN/Form 60 (wherever applicable) and any other documents as 
may be required by the insurer 
 
8.1.8. Under all kinds of Group I nsurance (Life /General/Health), KYC of Master 
Policyholders / Juridical Person / Legal Entity and the r espective Beneficial 
Owners (BO) shall be collected . However, the Master Policyholders under 
the group insurance shall maintain the details of all the individual members 
covered, which shall also be made available to the insurer as and when 
required. 
 
8.1.9. Customer information should be collected from all relevant sources, 
including from agents/intermediaries. 
 
8.1.10 Care has to be exercised to avoid unwitting involvement in insuring assets 
bought out of illegal funds. 
 
8.1.11 It is imperative to ensure that the insurance premium should not be 
disproportionate to income/ asset. 
 
8.1.12 At any point of time, where insurers are no longer satisfied about the true 
identity and the transaction made by the customer, a Suspicious 
Transaction Report (STR) should be filed with Financial Intelligence Unit -
India (FIU -IND) if it is satisfied that the transaction meets the criteria 
specified in sub clause (g) of clause (1) of Rule 2 of the PML Rules and 
any guidelines / indicators issued by IRDAI or FIU-IND. 
 
8.2. Client Due Diligence (CDD) 
Insurers shall undertake  CDD as per the provisions of Rule 9 of PML Rules. 
Accordingly, the insurer shall undertake CDD as follows: 
 
8.2.1. Knowing New Customer/ Client 
In case of every new customer, necessary Client due diligence with valid 
KYC documents of the customer/ client shall be done at the time of 
commencement of account based relationship.

[Page 12]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 10 
 
 
8.2.2. Knowing Existing Customer/Client 
The AML/ CFT requirements are applicable for all the existing customers/ 
clients. Hence, necessary Client due diligence  with KYC (as per extant 
PML Rules) shall be done for the existing customers from time to  time 
basis the adequacy of the data previously obtained.  
In case of non - availability of KYC of the existing clients as per the extant 
PML Rules, the same shall be collected  within 2 years for low risk 
customers and within 1 year for other  customers (including high risk 
customers). 
For continued operation of accounts of existing customers having 
insurance policy of not more than aggregate premium of Rs. 50,000/ - in a 
financial year, PAN/Form 60 may be obtained by such date as may be 
notified by the Central Government. 
 
8.2.3. Ongoing Due Diligence 
 
Besides verification of identity of the customer at the time of initial 
issuance of contract, Risk Assessment and ongoing due diligence should 
also be carried out (if so required) at times when additional/ subsequent 
remittances are made. 
Any change which is inconsistent with the normal and expected activity of 
the customer should attract the attention of the insurers for further ongoing 
due diligence processes and action as considered necessary. 
 
8.2.4. Verification at the time of payout/claim stage (redemption/surrender/ 
partial withdrawal/ maturity/ death/ refunds/reimbursement etc.) 
 
8.2.4.1. In insurance business, no payments should be allowed to third 
parties except as provided in the contract or in cases like 
superannuation/ gratuity accumulations and payments to 
beneficiaries/ legal heirs/assignees in case of death benefits . 
8.2.4.2. Necessary due diligence should be carried out of the 
policyholders / beneficiaries/ legal heirs/ assignees before 
making the pay-outs. 
8.2.4.3. Free look  cancellations need particular attention of the Insurer 
especially in cases of client indulging in free look cancellation on 
more than one occasion at short intervals frequently.

[Page 13]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 11 
 
 
8.2.5. Necessary due diligence become more important in case the policy has 
been assigned by the policyholder to a third party not related to him (except 
where insurance policy is assigned to Banks/ FIs/ Capital market 
intermediaries regulated by IRDAI/RBI/ SEBI or Marine cargo insurance 
policies). Notwithstanding the above, insurers a re required to ensure that 
no vulnerable cases go undetected, especially, where there is suspicion of 
money- laundering or terrorist financing, or where there are factors to 
indicate a higher risk, necessary due diligence will have to be carried out 
on such assignments and STR should be filed with FIU-IND, if necessary. 
 
9. Risk Assessment/ Categorization 
 
9.1. Insurers have to carry out ML and TF Risk Assessment exercise as provided in 
sub rule (13) of Rule 9 of PML Rules periodically based on risk exposure to 
identify, assess, document and take effective measures to mitigate its ML and 
TF risk for clients/customers or geographic areas, products, services,  nature 
and volume of transactions or delivery channels etc. While assessing the ML/TF 
risk, the insurers are required to take cognizance of the overall sector specific 
and country specific vulnerabilities, if any, that the Government of India / IRDAI 
may share with insurers from time to time. Further, the internal risk assessment 
carried out by insurer should be commensurate to its size, geographical 
presence, complexity or activities/ structure etc. 
 
9.2. In the context of the very large base of insurance customers and the significant 
differences in the extent of risk posed by them, as part of the risk assessment, 
the insurers shall at a minimum, classify the customer into high risk and low risk, 
based on the individual‟s profile and product profile, to decide upon the extent of 
due diligence. 
 
9.3. The documented risk assessment shall be updated from time to time. The 
insurers shall consider all the relevant risk factors before determining the level of 
overall risk and the appropriate level and type of mitigation to be applied. It shall 
be made available to competent authorities and law - enforcement agencies, as 
and when required. 
 
9.4. Risk Categorization: 
 
9.4.1. Risk categorization shall be undertaken based on parameters such as 
customer‟s identity, social/financial status, nature of business activity, and 
information about the clients‟ business and their location etc. While

[Page 14]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 12 
 
considering customer‟s identity, the ability to confirm identity documents 
through online or other services offered by issuing authorities may also be 
factored in. 
 
9.4.2. For the purpose of risk categorization, individuals (other than High Net 
Worth) and entities wh ose identities and source of wealth can be easily 
identified and transactions in whose policies by and large conform to the 
known profile may be categorized as low risk. Illustrative examples of low 
risk customers could be salaried employees whose salary s tructures are 
well defined, people belonging to lower economic strata of the society, 
government departments and government owned companies, regulators 
and statutory bodies. In such cases, the policy may require that only the 
basic requirements of verifyin g the identity and location of the customer are 
to be met. Notwithstanding the above, in case of continuing policies, if the 
situation warrants, as for examples if the customer profile is inconsistent 
with this investment through top -ups, a re -look on cust omer profile is to be 
carried out. 
 
9.4.3. For the high risk profiles, like for customers who are non - residents, high 
net worth individuals, trusts, charities, NGO‟s and organizations receiving 
donations, companies having close family shareholding or beneficial  
ownership, firms with sleeping partners, politically exposed persons (PEPs), 
and those with dubious reputation as per available public information who 
need higher due diligence, KYC and underwriting procedures should ensure 
higher verification and counter checks. 
 
10. Simplified Due Diligence (SDD) 
10.1. Simplified measures as provided under sub clause (d) of clause  (1) of  Rule 2 
of PML Rules are to be applied by the insurer in case  of  individual policies, 
where the aggregate insurance premium is not more than Rs 10000/ - per 
annum. 
 
However, Simplified Client Due Diligence measures are not acceptable 
whenever there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing or 
where specific high risk scenarios apply, based on the Risk 
Assessment/categorization p olicy of the insurers. Based on the robust risk 
assessment, insurers may apply Simplified Due Diligence measures only in 
respect of customers that are classified as 'low risk'. 
 
10.2. The list of simplified due diligence documents are specified  in sub clause (d ) 
of clause (1) of Rule 2 of the PML Rules.

[Page 15]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 13 
 
11. Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) 
 
11.1. Enhanced Due Diligence as mentioned in Section 12AA of PML Act. shall be 
conducted for high risk categories of clients.  
 
11.2. Insurers should examine, as far as reasonably possible, the  background and 
purpose of all complex, unusual patterns of transactions, which have no 
apparent economic or lawful purpose. Where the risks of money laundering or 
terrorist financing are higher, insurers should be required to conduct 
enhanced due diligence measures, consistent with the risks identified.  
 
11.3. Insurers shall 
 
11.3.1. Verify the identity of the clients preferably using Aadhaar subject to 
the consent of customer or;  
11.3.2. Verify the client through other modes/ methods of KYC as specified 
in these guidelines. 
 
11.4. Insurer shall examine the ownership and financial position, including client‟s 
source of funds commensurate with the assessed risk of customer and 
product profile. 
 
12. Sharing KYC information with Central KYC Registry (CKYCR) 
 
12.1. Government of India has notifie d the Central Registry of Securitisation Asset 
Reconstruction and Security Interest of India (CERSAI), to act as, and to 
perform the functions of the CKYCR vide Gazette Notification No. S.O. 
3183(E) dated November 26, 2015. 
 
12.2. Where a customer submits a “KYC  identifier” for KYC, the Insurers shall 
retrieve the KYC records from CKYCR. In such case, the customer shall not 
submit the KYC records unless there is a change in the KYC information 
required by Insurers as per Rule 9(1C) of PML Rules. 
 
12.3. If the KYC ident ifier is not submitted by the client / customer, insurers shall 
search (with certain credentials) for the same on CKYCR portal and record 
the KYC identifier of the client/ customer, if available. 
 
12.4. If the KYC identifier is not submitted by the client/customer or not available in 
the CKYCR portal, insurer shall capture the KYC information in the prescribed 
KYC Template meant for „Individuals‟ or „Legal Entities‟, as the case may be.

[Page 16]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 14 
 
12.5. Insurers shall file the electronic copy of the client‟s KYC reco rds with CKYCR 
within 10 days after the commencement of account based relationship with a 
client/ Customer (both Individual/ Legal Entities). 
 
12.6. Once “KYC Identifier” is generated/ allotted by CKYCR, the Insurers shall 
ensure that the same is communicated im mediately to the respective 
policyholder in a confidential manner, mentioning its advantage/ use to the 
individual/legal entity, as the case may be. 
 
12.7. The following details need to be uploaded on CKYCR if 
Verification/Authentication is being done using Aadhaar: 
 
12.7.1. For online Authentication, 
a) The redacted Aadhar Number (Last four digits) 
b) Demographic details 
c) The fact that Authentication was done 
12.7.2. For offline Verification 
a) KYC data 
b) Redacted Aadhaar number (Last four digits) 
 
12.8. At the time of periodic updation , it is to be ensured that all existing KYC 
records of individual/legal entity customers are incrementally uploaded as per 
the extant CDD standards. Insurers shall upload the updated KYC data 
pertaining to inforce /paid-up policies against which “KYC ident ifier” are yet to 
be allotted/generated by the CKYCR. 
 
12.9. Insurer shall not use the KYC records of the client obtained from Central KYC 
Records registry for purposes other than verifying the identity or address of 
the client and should not transfer KYC record s or any information contained 
therein to any third party unless authorised to do so by the client or IRDAI or 
by the Director(FIU-IND). 
 
13. Reliance on third party KYC 
 
For the purposes of KYC norms under cla use 8 , while insurers are ultimately 
responsible for customer due diligence and undertaking enhanced due diligence 
measures, as applicable, insurers may rely on a KYC done by a third party 
subject to the conditions -specified under sub-rule (2) of rule (9) of the Rules.

[Page 17]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 15 
 
Where insurer relies upon third party that is part of the same financial group, they 
should obtain KYC documents or the information of the client due diligence within 
15 days.  
 
14. Contracts with Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) 
 
14.1. It is emphasized  that proposals of Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) in 
particular requires examination by senior management. 
 
14.2. Insurers are directed to lay down appropriate on -going risk management 
procedures for identifying and applying enhanced due diligence measures on 
an on-going basis to PEPs and customers who are close relatives of PEPs. 
These measures are also to be applied to insurance contracts of which a PEP 
is the ultimate beneficial owner (s). 
 
14.3. If the on -going risk management procedures indicate that the cust omer or 
beneficial owner(s) is found to be PEP, or subsequently becomes a PEP, the 
senior management should be informed on this business relationship and 
apply enhanced due diligence measures on such relationship. 
 
15. New Business Practices/Developments 
 
15.1. Insurers shall pay special attention to money laundering threats that may   
arise from 
15.1.1. Development of new products 
15.1.2. New business practices including new delivery mechanisms 
15.1.3. Use of new or developing technologies for both new and pre - 
existing products. 
 
15.2. Special attention should especially, be paid to the „non -face-to-face‟ business 
relationships brought into effect through these methods. 
 
15.3. Insurers should lay down systems to prevent the misuse of money laundering 
framework. Safeguards will have to be built to mana ge typical risks 
associated in these methods like the following: 
 
15.3.1. Ease of access to the facility; 
15.3.2. Speed of electronic transactions;

[Page 18]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 16 
 
15.3.3. Ease of making multiple fictitious applications without incurring 
extra cost or the risk of detection; 
 
15.4. The extent of verification in respect of such „non face -to-face‟ customers will 
depend on the risk profile of the product and that of the customer. 
 
15.5. Insurers shall have in place procedures to manage specific increased risks 
associated with such relationships e.g. verifi cation of details of the customer 
through on-site visits. 
 
16. Implementation of Section 51A of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 
1967 (UAPA) 
 
16.1. Section 51A of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967(UAPA), relating 
to the purpose of prevention of, and for coping with terrorist activities was 
brought into effect through UAPA Amendment Act, 2008. In this regard, the 
Central Government has issued an  Order dated  2 nd February 2021 detailing 
the procedure for the implementation of Section 51A of the UAPA. 
 
16.2. The insurers should not enter into a contract with a customer whose identity 
matches with any person in the UN sanction list or with banned entities and 
those reported to have links with terrorists or terrorist organizations. 
 
16.3. Insurers shall periodi cally check MHA website for updated list of banned 
entities. 
 
16.4. A list of individuals and entities subject to UN sanction measures under 
UNSC Resolutions (hereinafter referred to as „designated individuals/ 
entities‟) would be circulated to the insurers thro ugh Life/ General Insurance 
Council, on receipt of the same from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). 
This is in addition to the list of banned entities compiled by Ministry of Home 
Affairs (MHA) that have been circulated to the insurers till date. 
 
16.5. Insurers shall maintain an updated list of designated individuals/entities in 
electronic form and run a check on the given parameters on a regular basis to 
verify whether designated individuals/entities are holding any insurance 
policies with the insurers. An  updated list of individuals and entities which are 
subject to various sanction measures as approved by Security Council 
Committee established pursuant to UNSC 1267 can be accessed regularly 
from the United Nations website at

[Page 19]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 17 
 
https://www.un.org/securitycouncil/sanctions/1267/aq_sanctions_list and 
UNSC 1988 can be accessed regularly from the United Nations website at 
https://www.un.org/securitycouncil/sanctions/1988/materials. 
 
16.6. By virtue of Section 51A of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 
(UAPA), the Central Government is empowered to freeze, seize or attach 
funds of and/or prevent entry into or transit through India any individual or 
entities that are suspected to be engaged in terrorism. [The list is accessible 
at website http://www.mha.gov.in]. To implement the said section an order 
reference F. No. 14014/01/2019/CFT dated 2 nd February, 2021  has been 
issued by the Government of India. The salient aspects of the order  with 
particular reference to insurance sector are provided at Annexure III. 
 
16.7. The list of Nodal Officers for UAPA is available on the website of Ministry of 
Home Affairs. 
 
17. Contracts emanating from countries identified as deficient in AML/CFT regime 
 
Insurers are required to: 
17.1. Conduct enhanced due diligence while taking insurance risk exposure to 
individuals/entities connected with countries identified by FATF as having 
deficiencies in their AML/CFT regime. 
 
17.2. Pay Special attention to business relationshi ps and transactions, especially 
those which do not have apparent economic or visible lawful purpose. In all 
such cases, the background and purpose of such transactions will as far as 
possible, have to be examined and written findings have to be maintained for 
assisting competent authorities. 
 
17.3. Agents/intermediaries/ employees to be appropriately informed to ensure 
compliance with this stipulation. 
 
17.4. Go beyond the FATF statements and consider publicly available information 
when identifying countries which do not or insufficiently apply the FATF 
Recommendations while using the FATF Public Statements, being circulated 
through the Life/ General Insurance Council. 
17.5. Take similar measures on countries considered as high risk from terrorist 
financing or money launderi ng perspective based on prior experiences, 
transaction history or other factors (e.g., legal considerations, or allegations of 
official corruption).

[Page 20]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 18 
 
18. Reporting Obligations 
 
18.1. Insurers shall furnish to the Director, Financial Intelligence Unit -India (FIU-
IND), information referred to in Rule 3 of the PML Rules in terms of Rule 7 
thereof. 
 
Explanation: In terms of Third Amendment Rules notified in September 22, 
2015 regarding amendment to sub rule 3 and 4 of rule 7, Director, FIU - IND 
shall have powers  to issue guidelines to the Insurers for detecting 
transactions referred to in various clauses of sub -rule (1) of rule 3, to direct 
them about the form of furnishing information and to specify the procedure 
and the manner of furnishing information. 
 
18.2. The reporting formats and comprehensive reporting format guide, prescribed/ 
released by FIU -IND and Report Generation Utility and Report Validation 
Utility developed to assist insurers in the preparation of prescribed reports 
shall be taken note of. The editable  electronic utilities to file electronic Cash 
Transaction  Reports  (CTR)  /  Suspicious Transaction Reports (STR)  which 
FIU-IND has placed on its website shall be made use of by Insurers which are 
yet to install/adopt suitable technological tools for ext racting CTR/STR from 
their live transaction data. The Principal Officers of those insurers, whose  all 
branches are  not fully computerized, shall have suitable  arrangement to cull 
out the transaction details from branches which are not yet computerized a nd 
to feed the data into an electronic file  with the  help of the editable  electronic 
utilities of CTR/STR  as have  been made  available by FIU -IND on its 
website http://fiuindia.gov.in. 
 
18.3. Illustrative list of Suspicious Transactions would be shared by IRDAI through 
Life/ General Insurance Council. Further, Red Flag Indicators issued by FIU -
IND also be taken in account for Suspicious Transaction, wherever 
necessary. 
 
18.4. While furnishing information to the Director, FIU-IND, delay of each day in not 
reporting a transaction or delay of each day in rectifying a mis - represented 
transaction beyond the time limit as specified in the Rule shall be constituted 
as a separate violation. Insurers shall not put any restriction  on operations in 
the accounts where an STR has been filed. Insurers shall keep the fact of 
furnishing of STR strictly confidential. It shall be ensured that there is no 
tipping off to the customer at any level.

[Page 21]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 19 
 
18.5. Robust software, throwing alerts when the t ransactions are inconsistent with 
risk categorization and updated profile of the customers shall be  put in to use 
as a part of effective identification and reporting of suspicious transactions. 
 
18.6. Insurers shall leverage the broadest number of data points /  records available 
with them in implementing alert generation systems to assist in identifying and 
reporting suspicious activities. 
 
18.7. Insurers should not enter into arrangement with any unregulated entity which 
may have the effect of directly or indirectly impairing any reporting obligations 
of the insurer. 
 
19. Record Keeping 
 
19.1. In view of Rule 5 of the PML rules, the insurers, its Designated Director, 
Principal Officer, employees are required to maintain the information/records 
of types of all transactions [as mentioned under Rules 3 and 4 of PML Rules 
2005] as well as those relating to the verification of identity of clients for a 
period of five years. The records referred to in the said Rule 3 shall be 
maintained for a period of five years from the date of tra nsaction. Records 
pertaining to all other transactions, (for which insurers are obliged to maintain 
records under other applicable Legislations/Regulations/Rules) insurers are 
directed to retain records as provided in the said 
Legislation/Regulations/Rules but not less than for a period of five years from 
the date of end of the business relationship with the customer. 
 
19.2. Records can be maintained in electronic form and/or physical form. In cases 
where services offered by a third party service providers are utilized, 
 
19.2.1 Insurers shall be satisfied about the organizational capabilities, 
and that technology, systems and measures are in place to 
safeguard the privacy of the data maintained and to prevent 
unauthorized access, alteration, destruction, disclosure or 
dissemination of records and data. 
 
19.2.2 The physical or electronic access to the premises, facilities, 
automatic data processing systems, data storage sites and 
facilities including back-up sites and facilities and to the electronic 
data communication network of the service provider is controlled, 
monitored and recorded.

[Page 22]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 20 
 
 
19.2.3 The service provider has established standard transmission and 
encryption formats and non -repudiation safeguards for electronic 
communication of data. 
 
19.2.4 It should also be ensured that the provi sions under the relevant 
and extant data protection statutes are duly complied with. 
 
19.3. Insurers should implement specific procedures for retaining internal records of 
transactions both domestic or international, to enable them to comply swiftly 
with information requests from the competent authorities. Such records must 
be sufficient to permit reconstruction of individual transactions (including the 
amounts and types of currency involved (if any) so as to provide, if necessary, 
evidence for prosecution  of criminal activity. Insurers should retain the 
records of those contracts, which have been settled by claim or cancelled, for 
a period of at least five years after that settlement. 
 
19.4. In situations, where the records relate to ongoing investigations, or 
transactions which have been the subject of a disclosure, they should be 
retained until it is confirmed that the case has been closed. Wherever 
practicable, insurers are required to seek and retain relevant identification 
documents for all such transactions  and report such transactions of 
suspicious funds. 
 
19.5. In case of customer identification data obtained through the customer due 
diligence process, account files and business correspondence should be 
retained (physically or electronically) for at least five y ears after the business 
relationship is ended. 
 
20. Monitoring of Transactions 
 
20.1. Regular monitoring of transactions is vital for ensuring effectiveness of the 
AML/CFT procedures. This is possible only if the insurers have an 
understanding of the normal activity  of the client so that it can identify 
deviations in transactions/ activities. 
20.2. Insurers shall pay special attention to all complex large transactions/ patterns 
which appear to have no economic purpose. The insurers may specify 
internal threshold limits for each class of client accounts and pay special 
attention to transactions which exceeds these limits. The background 
including all documents/ office records/ memorandums/ clarifications sought

[Page 23]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 21 
 
pertaining to such transactions and purpose thereof shall also be examined 
carefully and findings shall be recorded in writing. Further such fi ndings, 
records and related documents shall be made available to auditors and also 
to IRDAI/ FIU -IND/ other relevant Authorities, during audit, inspection or as 
and when required. These records are required to be maintained and 
preserved for a period of fi ve years from the date of transaction between the 
client and insurers. 
 
20.3. The Principal Officer of the insurers shall monitor and ensure that Suspicious 
transactions shall be regularly reported to the Director, FIU- IND. 
 
20.4. Further, the compliance cell of insu rers shall randomly examine a sample of 
transactions undertaken by clients to comment on their nature i.e. whether 
they are in nature of suspicious transactions or not. 
 
21. Repeal Provisions 
 
From the date of coming into force of these guidelines, the instructions / guidelines 
contained in the circulars mentioned in the Appendix, issued by IRDAI shall stand 
repealed. 
 
22. Notwithstanding anything contained in these guidelines, in case of any issue with 
respect to interpretation of any provision of these gui delines, the provisions/ 
directives of the FIU India, the PML Act/Aadhaar Act/Income Tax Act and their rules 
as amended from time to time, will prevail. 
 
The insurers are also advised to refer to the extant relevant directives, rules, laws 
and provisions mentioned therein on a regular basis to broadly understand, apply, 
update their AML /CFT program and implement the provisions of this guideline. 
 
  
-Sd/- 
(Randip Singh Jagpal) 
           Executive Director

[Page 24]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 22 
 
Annexure I 
(refer to para 4.5) 
 
Certificate of Compliance  (Master Guidelines AML/CFT) 
 
 
Name of Insurer:    
Financial Year:  
 
 
We do hereby submit that our company ............................................. (name) has  
fully complied with all the norms laid down under Master AML / CFT guidelines 
2022, and the company has set up a robust mechanism to comply with the extant 
PML Rules / Acts. 
 
 
 
 
Principal Officer/Chief Compliance Officer(Name and Signature) 
  
 
Chief Executive Officer (Name and Signature) 
 
 
 
 
(* to be submitted within 45 days of end of FY)

[Page 25]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 23 
 
Annexure II 
(refer to para 8.1.7.4) 
Video Based Identification Process(VBIP) 
 
Insurers may undertake live VBIP by developing an application which facilitates KYC 
process either online or face -to-face in-person verification through video. This may be 
used for establishment/continuation/ verification of an account based relationship or for 
any other services with an individual customer/beneficiary, as the case may be, after 
obtaining his/her informed consent and shall adhere to the following stipulations: 
 
a) The I nsurer/authorised person while performing the VBIP for KYC shall record 
clear live video of the customer/beneficiary present for identification and obtain 
the identification information in the form as below: 
 
i) Aadhaar Authentication if voluntarily submitted  by the Customer/ beneficiary,  
subject to notification by the government under Section 11 A of PMLA or 
ii) Offline Verification of Aadhaar for identification, if voluntarily submitted by the  
Customer/beneficiary or 
iii) Officially Valid Documents (As defined in rule 2(d) under PML Rules 2005) 
provided in the following manner –  
1) As digitally signed document of the Officially Valid Documents, issued 
to the DigiLocker by the issuing authority  
or 
2) As a clear photograph or scanned copy of the original Officially Valid  
Documents, through the eSign mechanism. 
 
b) The insurer may also utilize this facility to verify PAN (wherever applicable). The 
insurer/authorised person shall capture a clear image of PAN card to be 
displayed by the customer during the process, except in ca ses where e -PAN is 
provided by the customer. The PAN details shall be verified from the database of 
the issuing authority including through Digilocker. Use of printed copy of e-PAN is 
not valid for VBIP.  
 
c) The insurer/authorised person shall ensure that the online video is clear and the 
customer/beneficiary along with the authorised person in the video shall be easily 
recognisable and shall not be covering their face in any manner. 
 
d) Live location of the customer/beneficiary (Geotagging) shall be captured (both for 
online/ face -to-face VBIP) to ensure that customer/beneficiary is physically 
present in India.

[Page 26]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 24 
 
e) The authorised person/ Insurer shall ensure that the photograph and other 
necessary details of the customer/beneficiary in th e Aadhaar/ Officially Valid 
Documents/ PAN matches with the customer/beneficiary present for the VBIP. 
 
f) The authorised person/ Insurer shall ensure that the sequence and/or type of 
questions during video interactions are varied in order to establish that t he 
interactions are real-time and not pre-recorded. 
 
g) In case of offline verification of Aadhaar using XML file or Aadhaar Secure QR 
Code, if voluntarily submitted by the Customer/ beneficiary, it shall be ensured 
that the generation of XML file or QR code is recent and not older than 3 days 
from the date of carrying out VBIP. 
 
h) All accounts opened or any service provided based on VBIP shall be activated 
only after being subject to proper verification by the insurer to ensure that the 
integrity of process is maintained and is beyond doubt. 
 
i) Insurers shall ensure that the process is a seamless, real -time, secured, end- to-
end encrypted audio -visual interaction with the customer/beneficiary and the 
quality of the communication is adequate to allow identification  of the customer/ 
beneficiary beyond doubt. Insurers shall carry out the liveliness check in order to 
guard against spoofing and such other fraudulent manipulations. 
 
j) To ensure security, robustness and end to end encryption, the insurers shall 
carry out software and security audit and validation of the VBIP application as per 
extant norms before rolling it out and thereafter from time to time. 
 
k) The audio -visual interaction shall be triggered from the domain of the insurers 
itself, and not from third party s ervice provider. The VBIP process shall be 
operated by the Insurer/authorized persons. The activity log along with the 
credentials of the official performing the VBIP shall be preserved.  
 
l) Insurers shall ensure that the video recording bears the GPS coordi nates, date 
(DD:MM:YY) and time stamp (HH:MM:SS) along with other necessary details, 
which shall be stored in a safe and secure manner as per PML Rules. 
 
While exercising Online VBIP, the Insurer shall exercise extra caution and the

[Page 27]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 25 
 
additional necessary details viz. IP address etc. shall be preserved by the insurer 
to substantiate the evidence at the time of need. 
 
m) Insurers are encouraged to take assistance of the latest available technology 
(including Artificial Intelligence (AI) and face matching techno logies etc.) to 
strengthen and ensure the integrity of the process as well as the confidentiality of 
the information furnished by the customer/beneficiary. However, the 
responsibility of identification shall rest with the insurer. 
 
n) Authorized person of the insurer shall facilitate face to face VBIP process only at 
the customer/beneficiary end. 
 
However, the ultimate responsibility for client due diligence will be with the insurer. 
 
o) Insurer shall maintain the details of the concerned Authorised  person, who is 
facilitating the VBIP. 
 
p) Insurers shall ensure to redact or blackout the Aadhaar number as per extant 
PML Rules. 
 
q) Insurer will adhere to the IRDAI Cyber security guidelines as amended from time-
to-time along with the necessary security featu res and standard as mentioned 
below: 
 The Video KYC application and related APIs/Web Services shall undergo 
application security testing (both gray box and white box) through an CERT-In 
empanelled vendor and all reported vulnerabilities shall be mitigated before 
moving into production. 
 
 The infrastructure components used for hosting Video KYC application shall 
undergo vulnerability assessment and secure configuration review throu gh an 
CERT-In empanelled vendor and all reported vulnerabilities shall be mitigated 
before moving into production. 
 
 There shall be an end -to-end encryption from the customer/beneficiary to the 
hosting point of the Video KYC application. The minimum encrypt ion 
standards and key lengths like AES 256 for encryption should be used. 
 
 If the Video KYC application and video recordings are located at a third party 
location and/or in Cloud then the third party location and/or cloud hosting 
location shall be in India.

[Page 28]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 26 
 
Annexure III 
(refer to para 16.6) 
 
Implementation of Section 51A of UAPA 
 
To implement the said section an order reference F. No. 14014/01/2019/CFT 
dated 2nd February, 2021, has been issued by the Government of India. The 
salient aspects of the order with particular reference to insurance sector are 
detailed in the following paras: 
 
i. Procedure for reporting/freezing of insurance policies of ‘designated 
individuals/entities’ 
 
In case any matching records are identified, the procedure required to be 
adopted is as follows: 
a) To maintain updated designated lists in electronic form and run a check on 
the given parameters on a daily basis to verify whether individuals or entities 
listed in the Schedule to the Order, hereinafter, referred to as designated 
individuals/entities are holding any funds, financial assets or economic 
resources or  related services held in the form of insurance policies with 
them. 
b) In case, the particulars of any of their customers match with the particulars of 
designated individuals/entities, the insurers shall immediately inform full 
particulars of the funds, finan cial assets or economic resources or related 
services in the form of insurance policies, held by such a customer on their 
books to the Central [designated] Nodal Officer for the UAPA, at Fax No. 
011-23092551 and also convey over telephone No. 011 -23092548. The 
particulars apart from being sent by post shall necessarily be conveyed on 
email id: jsctcr-mha@gov.in. 
c) The insurers shall also send a copy of the communication mentioned in 1(b) 
above to the UAPA Nodal Officer of the State/UT (where the account is held) 
and to IRDAI and FIU-IND without delay. 
d) In case, the match of any of the customers with the particulars of designated 
individuals/entities is beyond doubt, insurers shall prevent such designated 
individuals/entities from conducting any transactions, under intimation to the 
Central [designated] Nodal Officer for the UAPA at Fax No. 011 -23092551 
and also convey over telephone No. 011 -23092548. The particulars apart 
from being sent by post should necessarily be c onveyed on e-mail id: jsctcr-

[Page 29]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 27 
 
mha@gov.in, without delay. 
e) Insurers shall file a Suspicious Transaction Report (STR) with FIU -IND in 
respect of the insurance policies covered by paragraph (1) (a) above, carried 
through or attempted, in the prescribed format. 
f) On receipt of the particulars (held in the form of Insurance Policies) of 
suspected designated individual /entities the Central [designa ted] Nodal 
Officer for the UAPA would cause a verification to be conducted by the State 
Police and/or the Central Agencies so as to ensure that the 
individuals/entities identified by the insurers are the ones listed as 
designated individuals/entities and the insurance policies, reported  by 
insurers are held by the designated individuals/entities. 
g) In case, the results of the verification indicate that the insurance policies are 
owned by or are held for the benefit of the designated individuals/entities, an 
order to freeze these insurance policies under section 51A of the UAPA  
would be issued without delay  and conveyed electronically by the Central 
[designated] Nodal Officer for the UAPA to the concerned office of insurers 
under intimation to IRDAI and FIU-IND. 
h) The said order shall take pla ce without prior notice to the designated 
individuals/entities. 
„Freezing of insurance contracts‟ would require not -permitting any transaction 
(financial or otherwise), against the specific contract in question. 
 
ii. Procedure for unfreezing of insurance policies of individuals/entities 
inadvertently affected by the freezing mechanism, upon verification that 
the individual/ entity is not a designated individual/entity 
 
a) Any individual or entity, if they have evidence to prove that the  insurance 
policies, owned/held by them has been inadvertently frozen, shall move an 
application giving the requisite evidence, in writing, to the concerned 
insurers. 
b) Insurers shall inform and forward a copy of the application together with full 
details of the insurance policie s inadvertently frozen as given by any 
individual or entity, to the Central [designated] Nodal Officer of MHA within 
two working days. 
c) The Central [designated] Nodal Officer  for the UAPA shall cause such 
verification as may be required on the basis of the evidence furnished by the 
individual/entity and if he is satisfied, he shall pass an order, without delay, 
unfreezing the insurance policies owned/held by such applicant, under

[Page 30]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 28 
 
intimation to the concerned insurers. However, if it is not possible for any 
reason to pass an Order unfreezing the assets within 5 working days, th e 
Nodal Officer shall inform the applicant. 
 
iii. Implementation of requests received from foreign countries under U.N. 
Security Council Resolution 1373 of 2001 
 
a) U.N. Security Council Resolution 1373 obligates countries to freeze without 
delay the funds or other assets of persons who commit, or attempt to 
commit, terrorist acts or participate in or facilitate the commission  of terrorist 
acts; of entities owned or controlled directly or indirectly by such persons; 
and of persons and entities acting on behalf of, or at the direction of such 
persons and entities, including funds or other assets, derived or generated 
from proper ty owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such persons 
and associated persons and entities. 
 
b) To give effect to the requests of foreign countries under U.N. Security 
Council Resolution 1373, the Ministry of External Affairs shall examine the 
requests made by the foreign countries and forward it electronically, with 
their comments, to the Central [designated] Nodal Officer  for freezing of 
funds or other assets. 
 
c) The Central [designated] Nodal Officer  of MHA, shall cause the request to 
be examined without delay, so as to satisfy that on the basis of applicable 
legal principles, the requested designation is supported by reasonable 
grounds, or a reasonable basis, to suspect or believe that the proposed 
designee is a terrorist, one who finances terror ism or a terrorist 
organization, and upon his satisfaction, request would be electronically 
forwarded to the Nodal Officer in IRDAI. The proposed designee, as 
mentioned above would be treated as designated individuals/entities. 
 
d) Upon receipt of the request  by Nodal Officer in IRDAI from the Central 
[designated] Nodal Officer , the request would be forwarded to insurers and 
the procedure as enumerated at paragraphs (i) above on freezing of 
insurance policies shall be followed. 
 
e) The freezing orders shall take place without prior notice to the designated 
persons involved.

[Page 31]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 29 
 
iv. Communication of orders under section 51A of UAPA 
IRDAI would communicate all Orders under section 51A of UAPA relating to 
insurance policies, to all the insurers after receipt of the same from MHA. 
 
v. Exemption in accordance with UNSCR 1452 
 
The above provisions of freezing shall not apply to funds and other financial 
assets or economic resources that  are  necessary  for  paying  insurance 
premiums or exclusively for payment of reasonable pr ofessional fees and 
reimbursement of incurred expenses associated with the  provision  of legal 
services or fees or service charges for routine holding  or maintenance of 
frozen funds or other financial assets or economic resources, after 
notification by t he MEA of the intention to authorize, where appropriate, 
access to such funds, assets or resources and in the absence of a negative 
decision within 48 hours of such notification.

[Page 32]
Master Guidelines on AML/CFT Page 30 
 
Appendix 
List of Circulars* 
(repealed) 
 
Sl Circular Ref Date Contents 
1. IRDA/SDD/GDL/CIR/020/02/ 
2013 
7th February 
2013 
AML/CFT (Guidelines for General 
Insurers) 
2. IRDA/SDD/GDL/CIR/79/04/2013 22nd April 2013 Data on AML/CFT guidelines 
3. IRDAI/SDD/GDL/CIR/175/09/ 
2015 
28th September 
2015 
Master circular on 
AML/CFT(Guidelines for  Life 
Insurers) 
4. IRDAI/SDD/MISC/CIR/135/07/2
016 
12th July 2016 Operationalisation of Central KYC 
Record Registry (CKYCR) 
5. IRDAI/SDD/MISC/CIR/248/11 
/2017 
8th November 
2017 
The prevention of Money - 
Laundering (Maintenance of 
Records) Second Amendment 
Rules, 2017 
6. IRDAI/SDD/CIR/ MISC/ 
267/12/2017 
18thDecember 
2017 
The prevention of Money - 
Laundering (Maintenance of 
Records) Seventh Amendment 
Rules, 2017 
7. IRDAI/SDD /CIR/MISC/047 
03/2018 
20th March 2018 The prevention of Money- 
Laundering (Maintenance of 
Records) Second and Seventh 
Amendment Rules, 2017 
8. IRDA/SDD/CIR/ 
MISC/020/01/2019 
29th January 
2019 
Allowing Aadhaar Card as one of 
the acceptable documents for 
KYC under certain conditions 
9. IRDA/ SDD / CIR / 
MISC/245/09/2020 
18thSeptember 
2020 
Video Based Identification 
Process 
10 IRDAI/SDD/CIR/MISC/016/01/20
21 
22nd January 
2021 
Centralized KYC Registry – Roll 
out of Legal Entity Template & 
other changes 
* The above circulars have been repealed by this Master Guidelines.
