[Page 1]
Page 1 of 44 
 
CIRCULAR 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/CIR/P/2024/185           December 31, 2024 
 
To, 
 
All listed entities that have listed their specified securities  
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories 
The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI)  
 
Madam / Sir, 
 
Sub: Implementation of recommendations of the Expert Committee for facilitating ease 
of doing business for listed entities 
 
1. The recommendations of the Expert Committee1 that was set up to inter-alia review the 
SEBI ( Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR 
Regulations” or “LODR”) from the point of view of  facilitating ease of doing business for 
listed entities  were approved by the SEBI Board and amendments to the LODR 
Regulations have been published in the Gazette of India on December 13, 2024 (link).  
 
2. Consequently, this circular is being issued to give effect to certain recommendations of the 
Expert Committee and carry out consequential changes to the provisions of SEBI Master 
Circular dated November 11, 2024, on compliance with the LODR Regulations by listed 
entities (“Master Circular”), the details of which are given in the subsequent paragraphs. 
 
Integrated Filing 
3. In order to facilitate ease of filing and compliance for listed entities, it has been decided to 
introduce Integrated Filing, in terms of regulation 10(1A) of the LODR Regulations, for the 
following Governance and Financial related periodic filings required under the LODR , 
which shall be applicable for the filings to be done for the quarter ending 31 st December 
2024 and thereafter: 
 
 
 
                                                           
1 Expert Committee for facilitating ease of doing business and harmonizati on of the provisions of the ICDR and 
LODR Regulations. The report of the Expert Committee can be accessed here.

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 44 
 
Sr. No. Regulation /  
circular 
Periodic Filing Revised Timeline Frequency 
Integrated Filing (Governance) 
1.  13(3) Statement on redressal 
of investor grievances  
Within 30 days of the end of 
the quarter. 
Quarterly 
2.  27(2)(a) Compliance Report on 
Corporate Governance 
Quarterly 
Integrated Filing (Financial) 
3.  23(9) Disclosure of Related 
Party Transactions 
(RPTs) 
Within 45 days of the end of 
the quarter & 60 days  from 
end of the last quarter & 
financial year. 
 Half Yearly 
4.  Reg. 30 r/w 
section V -B 
of the Master 
Circular  
Quarterly disclosure of 
outstanding default on 
loans / debt securities 
Quarterly 
5.  32(1)  Statement of Deviation 
and Variation 
 Quarterly 
6.  33(3) Financial results 
 
 Quarterly 
 
The format of quarterly Integrated Filing i.e., Integrated Filing (Governance) and Integrated 
Filing (Financial) is given in Annexure 1 to this circular.  
4. The timeline for quarterly Integrated Filing shall be as follows: 
a. Integrated Filing (Governance): within 30 days from the end of the quarter; 
b. Integrated Filing (Financial): within 45 days from the end of the quarter, other than 
the last quarter, and 60 days from the end of the last quarter and the financial year.  
 
In this regard, the first quarterly Integrated Filing i.e., Integrated Filing (Governance) 
and Integrated Filing (Financial) which is applicable for the quarter ending December 
31, 2024, may be filed within a period of 45 days from the end of the quarter. 
 
5. The following material events / information shall be disclosed on a quarterly basis in the 
format specified as part of the Integrated Filing (Governance): 
a. Acquisition of shares or voting rights  by listed entities  in an unlisted company, 
aggregating to 5% or any subsequent change in holding exceeding 2%  in terms of 
the provisions of Para A(1) of Part A of Schedule III of LODR. 
b. Imposition of fine or penalty which are lower than the monetary thresholds specified 
under Para A(20) of Part A of Schedule III of LODR.

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 44 
 
c. Updates on ongoing tax litigations or disputes in terms of the provisions of Para B(8) 
of Part A of Schedule III of LODR read with the corresponding provisions of Annexure 
18 of the Master Circular. 
 
6. In terms of the provisions of Regulation 23(2) of LODR, details of ratification of RPTs are 
required to be disclosed along with the half-yearly disclosures of RPTs. Accordingly, the 
value of ratified RPTs shall be disclosed in the format specified for disclosure of RPTs as 
part of the Integrated Filing (Financial)  (refer Table D under the format for quarterly 
Integrated Filing (Financial) given in Annexure 1). 
Secretarial Auditor 
7. Clause (a) of regulation 24A(1A) of the LODR Regulations inter-alia states that a person 
shall be eligible for appointment as a Secretarial Auditor of the listed entity only if such 
person is a Peer Reviewed Company Secretary and has not incurred any of the 
disqualifications as specified by the Board. Accordingly, disqualifications for appointment 
or continuation of a Secretarial Auditor of the listed entity is given in Annexure 2 of this 
circular.  
 
8. Further, as per regulation 24A(1B) of the LODR, a Secretarial Auditor appointed under the 
regulations shall provide to the listed entity only such other services as are approved by 
the board of directors but which shall not include any services as specified by SEBI in this 
behalf. Accordingly, the services that a Secretarial Auditor cannot render to the listed entity 
are specified in Annexure 3 of this circular.  
 
9. The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) may bring the contents of this circular 
to the notice of all its members, including Practising Company Secretaries (PCS). 
 
Guidelines for disclosure of Employee Benefit Scheme related documents 
10. Regulation 46(2)(za) of the LODR requires listed entities to disclose Employee Benefit 
Scheme Documents, excluding commercial secrets and such other information that would 
affect competitive position, framed in terms of SEBI (SBEB) Regulations, 2021 2. Further, 
redaction of information from such documents shall be approved by the board of directors 
and shall be in compliance with guidelines as may be specified by SEBI.  
                                                           
2 SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 44 
 
11. Listed entities shall , therefore, comply with the following requirements for disclosure of 
Employee Benefit Scheme Documents in terms of regulation 46(2)(za) of the LODR: 
a. The scheme document shall be uploaded on the website of the listed entity after 
obtaining shareholder approval as required under SEBI (SBEB) Regulations, 2021.   
b. The documents uploaded on the website shall mandatorily have minimum information 
to be disclosed to shareholders as per SEBI (SBEB) Regulations, 2021.  
c. The rationale for redacting information from the documents and the justification as to 
how such redacted information would affect competitive position or reveal commercial 
secrets of the lis ted entity shall be placed before the board of directors for 
consideration and approval.  
The secretarial compliance report issued by a Peer Reviewed Company Secretary under 
regulation 24A(2) of the LODR Regulations shall include a confirmation on compliance 
with the aforesaid requirements by the listed entity. 
 
Single Filing System 
12. The facility of single filing by listed entities has already been put in place by BSE and NSE 
w.e.f. October 1, 2024, beginning with the filing of statement on redressal of investor 
grievances under regulation 13(3) of the LODR Regulations and subsequently extended 
to corporate governance report under regulation 27(2), reconciliation of share capital audit 
report and disclosure of voting results under regulation 44(3). Details of other filings to be 
brought under the single filing system shall be communicated by Stock Exchanges from 
time to time. 
System driven disclosure of certain filings 
13. Stock Exchanges, in consultation with SEBI, shall specify the process, procedure and 
timelines for s ystem driven disclosure  of t he following filing / disclosure requirements 
applicable to listed entities under the LODR Regulations: 
Sr. No. Regulation Filing 
1. Regulation 31(1)(b) of LODR Shareholding Pattern  
2. Regulation 30(6) r/w sub-para 3 
of para A of part A of schedule 
III of LODR 
New rating(s) or revision in ratings

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 44 
 
Changes to the Master Circular 
14. In order to give effect to certain recommendations of the Expert Committee, changes have 
been carried out to the provisions of the Master Circular as detailed in Annexure 4 of this 
circular. Major changes to the Master Circular include the following: 
a. The formats for corporate governance report, financial results, statement of deviation, 
RPT etc. have been deleted as relevant formats have been incorporated in Annexure 
1 of this circular as part of the new Integrated Filing.  
b. Introduction of fines for non -compliance with the timelines specified in regulation 
31A(3)(a) of the LODR for reclassification of promoter / promoter group entity as 
public.  
c. Changes to the provisions relating to Group Governance Unit in order to bring in 
clarity.  
d. Annexure 18A of the Master Circular on timelines for disclosure of material events / 
information shall stand substituted by Annexure 5 to this circular. 
 
15. The Recognized Stock Exchanges and Depositories are directed to: 
a. bring the contents of this circular to the notice of the all the stakeholders; 
b. put in place necessary systems and infrastructure for monitoring and implementation 
of this circular. 
 
16. This Circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with regulations 101 and 102 of 
the LODR Regulations.  
 
17. This Circular is available at www.sebi.gov.in under the link “Legal->Circulars”. 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Raj Kumar Das 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Policy and Development – 2 
+91-22-26449253 
rajkd@sebi.gov.in 
 
*****

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 44 
 
Annexure 1 
FORMAT FOR QUARTERLY INTEGRATED FILING (GOVERNANCE) 
A. Compliance Report on Corporate Governance to be submitted by a listed entity on a quarterly basis 
1. Name of the Listed Entity: 
2. Quarter ending: 
 
I. Composition of Board of Directors 
Title 
(Mr 
. / 
Ms) 
Name of 
the 
Director 
PAN$ 
& DIN 
Category 
(Chairperson 
/Executive/Non- 
Executive/in 
dependent/  
Nominee) & 
Initial Date 
of 
Appointment 
 
Date of Re-
appointment 
Date of 
Cessation 
Tenure* Date of 
Birth 
No. of 
directorship 
in listed 
entities 
including 
this listed 
entity 
 
[with 
reference to 
Regulation 
17A] 
No. of 
Independent 
Directorship 
in listed 
entities 
including 
this listed 
entity 
 
[with  
reference to 
proviso to 
regulation 
17A(1)] & 
reg. 17A(2)] 
No. of 
memberships 
in Audit/ 
Stakeholder 
Committee(s) 
including this 
listed entity 
 
(Refer 
Regulation 
26(1) of the 
LODR 
Regulations) 
No. of post of 
Chairperson in 
Audit/ 
Stakeholder 
Committee 
held in listed 
entities 
including this 
listed entity 
 
(Refer 
Regulation 
26(1) of the 
LODR 
Regulations) 
             
  Whether Regular chairperson appointed 
  Whether Chairperson is related to managing director or CEO

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 44 
 
  $PAN number of any director would not be displayed on the website of Stock Exchange  
&Category of directors means executive/non-executive/independent/Nominee. If a director fits into more than one category write all categories 
separating them with hyphen 
* to be filled only for Independent Director. Tenure would mean total period from which Independent director is serving on Bo ard of directors of 
the listed entity in continuity without any cooling off period. 
 
II. Composition of Committees 
Name of Committee Whether Regular 
chairperson appointed 
Name of 
Committee 
members 
Category 
(Chairperson/Executive/Non- 
Executive/independent/ 
Nominee) & 
Date of 
Appointment 
Date of 
Cessation 
1. Audit Committee      
2. Nomination & Remuneration Committee      
3. Risk Management Committee (if 
applicable) 
     
4. Stakeholders Relationship Committee      
&Category of directors means executive/non-executive/independent/Nominee. if a director fits into more than one category write all categories separating 
them with hyphen 
 
III. Meeting of Board of Directors 
Date(s) of Meeting in 
the relevant quarter 
Whether 
requirement of 
Quorum met* 
Number of 
Directors 
present* 
Number of 
independent 
directors present* 
 
Date(s) of Meeting in 
the previous quarter 
Maximum gap between any two 
consecutive meetings (in number of days) 
 Yes / No     
* to be filled in only for the current quarter meetings

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 44 
 
IV. Meeting of Committees 
Name of the 
Committee 
Date(s) of 
meeting of the 
committee in 
the relevant 
quarter 
Whether 
requirement of 
Quorum met 
(details)* 
Number of 
Directors 
present* 
Number of 
independent 
directors present* 
 
Date(s) of 
meeting of the 
committee in 
the previous 
quarter 
Maximum gap 
between any two 
consecutive meetings 
in number of days** 
  Yes / No     
* to be filled in only for the current quarter meetings 
** This information has to be mandatorily be given for audit committee and Risk Management Committee, for rest of the committees giving this information is 
optional 
 
V. Affirmations 
1. The composition of Board of Directors is in terms of SEBI (Listing obligations and disclosure requirements) Regulations, 2015 . 
2. The composition of the following committees is in terms of SEBI (Listing obligations and disclosure requirements) Regulations, 2015 
a. Audit Committee 
b. Nomination & remuneration committee 
c. Stakeholders relationship committee 
d. Risk management committee (applicable to the top 1000 listed entities, voluntary for entities ranked 1001 to 2000) 
3. The committee members have been made aware of their powers, role and responsibilities as specified in SEBI (Listing obligatio ns and disclosure 
requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
4. The meetings of the board of directors and the above comm ittees have been conducted in the manner as specified in SEBI (Listing obligations and 
disclosure requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
5. This report and/or the report submitted in the previous quarter has been placed before Board of Directors. Any comments/obser vations/advice of Board 
of Directors may be mentioned here: 
 
 
 
Note: 
Information at Table I and II above need to be necessarily given in 1st quarter of each financial year. However, if there is no change of information in subsequent 
quarter(s) of that financial year, this information may not be given by the listed entity and instead a statement “same as pr evious quarter” may be given. 
 
 Name & Designation 
 
 Company Secretary / Compliance Officer / Managing Director / CEO / CFO

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 44 
 
B. INVESTOR GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL REPORT 
 
Investor Grievance Redressal Report 
No. of investor complaints pending at the beginning of Quarter   
No. of investor complaints received during the Quarter   
No. of investor complaints disposed off during the Quarter   
No. of investor complaints those remaining unresolved at the end 
of the Quarter   
 
C. DISCLOSURE OF ACQUISITION OF SHARES OR VOTING RIGHTS IN UNLISTED COMPANIES 
 
The details of acquisition of shares or voting rights in unlisted companies during the quarter in terms of sub-para 1 of para A of Part A of Schedule 
III are given below: 
 
S. 
No. 
Name of the unlisted 
company in which shares 
or voting rights have 
been acquired 
Date of 
acquisition 
Aggregate holding (% 
shares or voting rights) as 
at the end of the previous 
quarter 
% shares or voting 
rights acquired 
during the quarter 
Aggregate holding (% 
shares or voting rights) 
as at the end of the 
quarter

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 44 
 
D. DISCLOSURE OF IMPOSITION OF FINE OR PENALTY 
 
The details of imposition of fine or penalty during the quarter in terms of sub-para 20 of para A of Part A of Schedule III are given below: 
 
S. 
No. 
Name of 
the 
authority 
Nature and details 
of the action(s) 
taken or order(s) 
passed 
Date of receipt of direction or 
order, including any ad-interim 
or interim orders, or any other 
communication from the 
authority 
Details of the 
violation(s)/ 
contravention(s) 
committed or alleged to 
be committed 
Impact on financial, 
operation or other activities 
of the listed entity, 
quantifiable in monetary 
terms to the extent possible 
      
 
E. DISCLOSURE OF UPDATES TO ONGOING TAX LITIGATIONS OR DISPUTES 
 
The updates on tax litigations or disputes in terms of sub-para 8 of para B of Part A of Schedule III read with corresponding provisions of Annexure 
18 of the Master Circular are given below: 
 
S. 
No. 
Name of the 
opposing party 
Date of initiation of the 
litigation / dispute 
Status of the litigation / dispute as 
per last disclosure 
Current status of the 
litigation / dispute

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 44 
 
F. DISCLOSURE OF LOANS / GUARANTEES / COMFORT LETTERS / SECURITIES ETC. (applicable only for half-yearly filings i.e., 
2nd and 4th quarter) 
HALF YEAR ENDING - ………………  
I. Disclosure of Loans / guarantees / comfort letters / securities etc. refer note below 
 
(A) Any loan or any other form of debt advanced by the listed entity directly or indirectly to: 
 
Entity Aggregate amount advanced during six months  Balance outstanding at the end of six months 
Promoter or any other entity controlled by 
them 
  
Promoter Group or any other entity 
controlled by them 
  
Directors (including relatives) or any other 
entity controlled by them 
  
KMPs or any other entity controlled by 
them 
  
  
(B) Any guarantee/ comfort letter (by whatever name called) provided by the listed entity directly or indirectly, in connection w ith any loan(s) or any other 
form of debt availed by: 
 
Entity Type (guarantee, comfort letter etc.) Aggregate amount of issuance during 
six months  
Balance outstanding at the end of 
six months (taking into account 
any invocation) 
Promoter or any other entity 
controlled by them 
   
Promoter Group or any other 
entity controlled by them 
   
Directors (including 
relatives) or any other entity 
controlled by them 
   
KMPs or any other entity 
controlled by them 
   
 
(C) Any security provided by the listed entity directly or indirectly, in connection with  any loan(s) or any other form of debt availed by:

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 44 
 
Entity Type of security (cash, 
shares etc.) 
Aggregate value of security provided 
during six months  
Balance outstanding at the end of six 
months 
Promoter or any other entity 
controlled by them 
   
Promoter Group or any other 
entity controlled by them 
   
Directors (including relatives) 
or any other entity controlled by 
them 
   
KMPs or any other entity 
controlled by them 
   
 
II. Affirmations: 
All loans (or other form of debt), guarantees, comfort letter s (by whatever name called) or securities in connection with any loan(s) (or other form of debt) 
given directly or indirectly by the listed entity to promoter(s), promoter group, director(s) (including their relatives), key managerial personnel (including their 
relatives) or any entity controlled by them are in the economic interest of the company.  
  Name & Designation 
CEO / CFO 
Note 
1. These disclosures shall exclude any loan (or other form of debt), guarantee / comfort letter (by whatever name called) or se curity provided in 
connection with any loan or any other form of debt; 
a) by a government company to/ for the Government or government company   
b) by the listed entity to/for its subsidiary [and joint-venture company] whose accounts are consolidated with the listed entity. 
c) by a banking company or an insurance company; and 
d) by the listed entity to its employees or directors as a part of the service conditions  
 
2. If the Listed Entity would like to provide any other information, the same may be indicated as Para D in the above table.

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 44 
 
G. AFFIRMATIONS ON COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR AGM (applicable only for the first half-year filing i.e., 2nd 
quarter) 
I Affirmations  
 Regulation Number Compliance status 
(Yes/No/NA)refer note below 
Copy of the annual report includin g balance sheet, profit and loss account, directors report, 
corporate governance report, BRSR & BRSR core, if applicable, displayed on website 
46(2)  
Presence of Chairperson of Audit Committee at the Annual General Meeting  18(1)(d)  
Presence of Chairperson of the nomination and remuneration committee at the annual general 
meeting 
19(3)  
Presence of Chairperson of the Stakeholder Relationship committee at the annual general 
meeting 
20(3)  
Disclosure of the Secretarial Audit Report of the listed entity and the material subsidiaries in the 
Annual Report 
24A(1)  
Compliance with the conditions laid down for  Secretarial Auditor or the person signing the 
Secretarial Compliance Report 
24A(1A), 24A(1B), 
24A(1C) 
 
Submission of Annual Secretarial Compliance Report 24A(2)  
Whether “Corporate Governance Report” disclosed in Annual Report  34(3) read with para C 
of Schedule V 
 
Note 
1 In the column “Compliance Status”, compliance or non -compliance may be indicated by Yes/No/N.A. For example, if the Board has been compo sed in 
accordance with the requirements of LODR Regulations, "Yes" may be indicated.  
2 If status is “No” details of non-compliance may be given here. 
3 If the Listed Entity would like to provide any other information the same may be indicated  here. 
Name & Designation 
 
Company Secretary / Compliance Officer / Managing Director / CEO / CFO

[Page 14]
Page 14 of 44 
 
H. WEBSITE AFFIRMATIONS (applicable only for Annual Filing i.e., 4th quarter) 
 
I. Disclosure on website in terms of LODR Regulations  
Item Compliance status 
(Yes/No/NA)refer note below 
If Yes provide link to 
website. If No / NA provide 
reasons 
     As per regulation 46(2) of the LODR:   
a) Details of business   
 aa) Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association   
 ab) Brief profile of board of directors including direc torship and full -time positions in body 
corporates 
  
b) Terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors   
c) Composition of various committees of board of directors   
d) Code of conduct of board of directors and senior management personnel   
e) Details of establishment of vigil mechanism/ Whistle Blower policy   
f) Criteria of making payments to non-executive directors   
g) Policy on dealing with related party transactions   
h) Policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries   
i) Details of familiarization programmes imparted to independent directors   
j) email address for grievance redressal and other relevant details   
k) Contact information of the designated officials of the listed entity who are responsible for 
assisting and handling investor grievances 
  
l) Financial results   
m) Shareholding pattern   
n) Details of agreements entered into with the media companies and/or their associates  
 
 
  
o) (i) Schedule of analyst or institutional investor meet  
 
(ii) Presentations prepared by the listed entity for analysts or insti tutional investors meet, 
post earnings or quarterly calls prior to beginning of such events. 
 
 
  
 oa) Audio recordings, video recordings, if any, and transcripts of post earnings or quarterly calls, 
by whatever name called, conducted physically or through digital means

[Page 15]
Page 15 of 44 
 
p) New name and the old name of the listed entity   
q) Advertisements as per regulation 47(1)   
r) Credit rating or revision in credit rating obtained   
s) Separate audited financial statements of each subsidiary of the listed entity in respect of  a 
relevant financial year 
  
t) Secretarial Compliance Report   
u) Materiality Policy as per Regulation 30(4)   
v) Disclosure of contact details of KMP who are authorized for the purpose of determining 
materiality as required under regulation 30(5) 
  
w) Disclosures under regulation 30(8)   
x) Statements of deviation(s) or variations(s) as specified in regulation 32   
y) Dividend distribution policy as specified in regulation 43A(1)   
z) Annual return as provided under section 92 of the Companies Act, 2013    
  za) Employee Benefit scheme documents framed in terms of SEBI (SBEB) Regulations, 2021    
   
 Confirmation that the above disclosures are in a separate section as specified in 
regulation 46(2) 
  
 Compliance with regulation 46(3) with respect to accuracy of disclosur es on the website 
and timely updation 
  
 
 
I. AFFIRMATIONS W.R.T. COMPLIANCE WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PROVISIONS (applicable only for Annual Filing i.e., 
4th quarter) 
 
II Annual Affirmations 
Particulars Regulation Number Compliance status 
(Yes/No/NA)refer note below 
Independent director(s) have been appointed in terms of specified 
criteria of 
‘independence’ and/or ‘eligibility’ 
16(1)(b)   
Board composition 17(1), 17(1A),  17(1C), 17(1D) & 
17(1E) 
 
Meeting of Board of directors 17(2)    
Quorum of Board meeting 17(2A)  
Review of Compliance Reports 17(3)  
Plans for orderly succession for Appointments 17(4)

[Page 16]
Page 16 of 44 
 
Code of Conduct 17(5)  
Fees/compensation 17(6)  
Minimum Information 17(7)  
Compliance Certificate 17(8)  
Risk Assessment & Management 17(9)  
Performance Evaluation of Independent Directors 17(10)  
Recommendation of Board 17(11)  
Maximum number of directorships 17A  
Composition of Audit Committee 18(1)  
Meeting of Audit Committee 18(2)  
Role of Audit Committee and information to be reviewed by t he audit 
committee  
18(3)  
Composition of nomination & remuneration committee 19(1) & (2)  
Quorum of Nomination and Remuneration Committee meeting 19(2A)  
Meeting of nomination & remuneration committee 19(3A)  
Role of Nomination and Remuneration Committee 19(4)  
Composition of Stakeholder Relationship Committee 20(1),  20(2)and 20(2A)  
Meeting of stakeholder relationship committee 20 (3A)  
Role of Stakeholders Relationship Committee 20(4)  
Composition and role of risk management committee 21(1),(2),(3),(4)  
Meeting of Risk Management Committee 21(3A)  
Quorum of Risk Management Committee meeting 21(3B)  
Gap between the meetings of the Risk Management Committee 21(3C)  
Vigil Mechanism 22  
Policy for related party Transaction 23(1), (1A), (5) ,(6),& (8)  
Prior or Omnibus approval of Audit Committee for all related party 
transactions 
23(2), (3)  
Approval for material related party transactions 23(4)  
Disclosure of related party transactions on consolidated basis 23(9)  
Composition of Board of Directors of unlisted material Subsidiary 24(1)  
Other Corporate Governance requirements with respect to subsidiary of 
listed entity 
24(2),(3),(4),(5) & (6)  
Alternate Director to Independent Director 25(1)  
Maximum Tenure 25(2)  
Appointment, Re -appointment or removal of an Independent Director 
through special resolution or the alternate mechanism 
25(2A)

[Page 17]
Page 17 of 44 
 
Meeting of independent directors 25(3) & (4)  
Familiarization of independent directors 25(7)  
Declaration from Independent Director 25(8) & (9)  
Directors and Officers insurance 25(10)  
Confirmation with respect to appointment of Independent Directors who 
resigned from the listed entity 
25(11)  
Memberships in Committees 26(1)  
Affirmation with compliance to code of conduct from members of Board 
of Directors and Senior management Personnel 
26(3)  
Policy with respect to Obligations of directors and senior management 26(2) & 26(5)  
Approval of the Board and shareholders for compensation or profit 
sharing in connection with dealings in the securities of the listed entity. 
26(6)  
Vacancies in respect Key Managerial Personnel 26A(1) & 26A(2), 26A(3)  
Note 
1. In the column “Compliance Status”, compliance or non -compliance may be indicated by Yes/No/N.A. For example, if the Board has been composed in 
accordance with the requirements of LODR Regulations, "Yes" may be indicated. Similarly, in case the Listed Entity has no related pa rty transactions, 
the words “N.A.” may be indicated. 
2. If status is “No” details of non-compliance may be given here. 
3. If the Listed Entity would like to provide any other information the same may be indicated here.  
 
III Affirmations: 
The Listed Entity has approved the Material Subsidiary Policy and the Corporate Governance requirements with respect to the s ubsidiary of Listed Entity 
have been complied. 
Name & Designation 
Company Secretary / Compliance Officer / Managing Director / CEO / CFO

[Page 18]
Page 18 of 44 
 
FORMAT FOR QUARTERLY INTEGRATED FILING (FINANCIAL) 
A. FINANCIAL RESULTS 
 
Formats for unaudited / audited quarterly financial results i.e., Statement of Profit and Loss and the unaudited / audited half-yearly balance sheet 
to be submitted by listed entities shall be as per the formats for balance sheet and statement of profit and loss (excluding notes and detailed sub-
classification) as prescribed in Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, as amended from time to time. Listed banking and insurance companies 
shall follow the formats as prescribed under the respective Acts / Regulations and / or as specified by the sectoral regulato rs. While publishing 
the quarterly financial results, listed entities shall also publish the figures relating to the periods as mentioned in para 5 of section III-A of SEBI 
Master Circular dated November 11, 2024. 
B. STATEMENT ON DEVIATION OR VARIATION FOR PROCEEDS OF PUBLIC ISSUE, RIGHTS ISSUE, PREFERENTIAL ISSUE, 
QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT ETC. 
 
Statement on deviation / variation in utilisation of funds raised  
Name of listed entity                  
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
Mode of Fund Raising   Public Issues / Rights  
Issues / Preferential 
Issues / QIP / Others   
Date of Raising Funds      
Amount Raised      
Report filed for Quarter ended     
Monitoring Agency  applicable / not 
applicable  
Monitoring Agency Name, if applicable     
Is there a Deviation / Variation in use of funds 
raised  
Yes / No

[Page 19]
Page 19 of 44 
 
If yes, whether the same is pursuant to  change 
in terms of a contrac t or objects, which was 
approved by the shareholders     
             
             
             
             
             
If Yes, Date of shareholder Approval     
Explanation for the Deviation / Variation     
Comments of the Audit Committee after review     
Comments of the auditors, if any 
  
   
Objects for whi ch funds have been raised and 
where there has been a deviation, in the 
following table  
   
Original Object   Modified Object, if any  Original 
Allocation  
Modified 
allocation, 
if any  
Funds  
Utilised   
Amount of  
Deviation/Variation 
for the quarter 
according to 
applicable object  
Remarks if 
any  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
                     
Deviation or variation could mean:              
(a) Deviation in the objects or purposes for which the funds have been raised or            
(b) Deviation in the amount of funds actually utilized as against what was originally disclosed or        
(c) Change in terms of a contract referred to in the fund raising document i.e. prospectus, letter of offer, etc.       
               
Name of Signatory               
Designation

[Page 20]
Page 20 of 44 
 
C. FORMAT FOR DISCLOSING OUTSTANDING DEFAULT ON LOANS AND DEBT SECURITIES 
 
S. No. Particulars in INR crore 
1. Loans / revolving facilities like cash credit from banks / financial institutions 
A Total amount outstanding as on date  
B Of the total amount outstanding, amount of default as on date  
2. Unlisted debt securities i.e. NCDs and NCRPS 
A Total amount outstanding as on date  
B Of the total amount outstanding, amount of default as on date  
3. Total financial indebtedness of the listed entity including short-term 
and long-term debt

[Page 21]
Page 21 of 44 
 
 D. FORMAT FOR DISCLOSURE OF RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (applicable only for half-yearly filings i.e., 2nd and 
4th quarter)  
 
 
Additional disclosure of related party transactions - applicable only in case the 
related party transaction relates to loans, inter -corporate deposits, advances 
or investments made or given by the listed entity/subsidiary. These details 
need to be disclosed only once, during the reporting period when such 
transaction was undertaken. 
S. 
No 
  
Details of the 
party (listed 
entity 
/subsidiary) 
entering into 
the 
transaction 
Details of the counterparty 
Type of 
related 
party 
transaction 
(see Note 
5) 
  
Value of 
the related 
party 
transaction 
as 
approved 
by the 
audit 
committee 
(see Note 
6a) 
  
Value of 
the related 
party 
transaction 
ratified by 
the audit 
committee 
(see Note 
6b) 
Value of 
transaction 
during the 
reporting 
period 
(see Note 
6c) 
  
In case monies 
are due to 
either party as 
a result of the 
transaction 
(see Note 1) 
In case any financial 
indebtedness is incurred 
to make or give loans, 
inter-corporate deposits, 
advances or investments 
Details of the loans, inter-corporate deposits, 
advances or investments 
Name PAN Name PAN 
Relationship 
of the 
counterparty 
with the listed 
entity or its 
subsidiary 
  
 
 Opening 
balance 
Closing 
balance 
Nature of 
indebtedness 
(loan/ issuance 
of debt/ any 
other etc.) 
Cost 
  
(see 
Note 
7) 
Tenure 
Nature 
(loan/ 
advance/ 
inter-
corporate 
deposit/ 
investment 
Interest 
Rate (%) Tenure Secured/ 
unsecured 
Purpose 
for 
which 
the 
funds 
will be 
utilised 
by the 
ultimate 
recipient 
of funds 
(end-
usage) 
                                       
  
Tota
l (of 
Note 
6b)

[Page 22]
Page 22 of 44 
 
Notes: 
1.  The details in this format are required to be provided for all transactions undertaken during the reporting period. However, opening and closing 
balances, including commitments, to be disclosed for existing related party transactions even if there is no new related part y transaction during the 
reporting period. 
 
2.  Where a transaction is undertaken between members of the consolidated entity (between the listed entity and its subsidiary or b etween subsidiaries), 
it may be reported once. 
 
3.  Listed banks shall not be required to provide the disclosures with respect to rel ated party transactions involving loans, inter-corporate deposits, 
advances or investments made or given by the listed banks.  
 
4.  For companies with financial year ending March 31, this information has to be provided for six months ended September 30 and six months ended 
March 31. Companies with financial years ending in other months, the six months period shall apply accordingly.  
 
5.  Each type of related party transaction (for e.g. sale of goods/services, purchase of goods/services or whether it involves a loan, inter-corporate deposit, 
advance or investment) with a single party shall be disclosed separately and there should be no clubbing or netting of transa ctions of same type. 
However, transactions with the same counterparty of the same type may be aggreg ated for the reporting period. For instance, sale transactions with 
the same party may be aggregated for the reporting period and purchase transactions may also be disclosed in a similar manner . There should be no 
netting off for sale and purchase transact ions. Similarly, loans advanced to and received from the same counterparty should be disclosed separately, 
without any netting off. 
 
6.  In case of a multi-year related party transaction: 
a. The aggregate value of such related party transaction as approved by the audit committee shall be disclosed in the column “Value of the 
related party transaction as approved by the audit committee”. 
b. The value of the related party transaction ratified by the audit committee shall be disclosed in the column “Value of the related party 
transaction ratified by the audit committee”. 
c. The value of the related party transaction undertaken in the reporting period shall be reported in the column “Value of relat ed party 
transaction during the reporting period”.  
 
7.  "Cost" refers to the cost of borrowed funds for the listed entity.

[Page 23]
Page 23 of 44 
 
8.  PAN will not be displayed on the website of the Stock Exchange(s). 
 
9.  Transactions such as acceptance of fixed deposits by banks/NBFCs, undertaken with related parties, at  the terms uniformly applicable /offered to all 
shareholders/ public shall also be reported. 
 
 
 
E. STATEMENT ON IMPACT OF AUDIT QUALIFICATIONS (FOR AUDIT REPORT WITH MODIFIED OPINION) SUBMITTED ALONG-
WITH ANNUAL AUDITED FINANCIAL RESULTS (Standalone and Consolidated separately) (applicable only for Annual Filing 
i.e., 4th quarter) 
 
 
Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications for the Financial Year ended March 31, ........  
(See regulation 33 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015) 
  
I.  
  
  
Sl.  
No.  
Particulars  
Audited Figures  
(as reported before 
adjusting for qualifications)  
Adjusted Figures  
(audited figures after 
adjusting for 
qualifications)  
1.  Turnover / Total income  -  -  
2.  Total Expenditure   -  -  
3.  Net Profit/(Loss)  -  -  
4.  Earnings Per Share  -  -  
   5.  Total Assets  -  -

[Page 24]
Page 24 of 44 
 
   6.  Total Liabilities  -  -  
   7.  Net Worth  -  -  
   8. Any other financial item(s) (as felt appropriate by the 
management)  
-  -  
II. 
   
   
   
   
Audit Qualification (each audit qualification separately):  
a. Details of Audit Qualification:   
b. Type of Audit Qualification: Qualified Opinion / Disclaimer of Opinion / Adverse Opinion  
c. Frequency of qualification: Whether appeared first time / repetitive / since how long continuing  
d. For Audit Qualification(s) where the impact is quantified by the auditor, Management's Views:  
e. For Audit Qualification(s) where the impact is not quantified by the auditor:   
(i) Management's estimation on the impact of audit qualification:   
(ii) If management is unable to estimate the impact, reasons for the same:  
(iii) Auditors' Comments on (i) or (ii) above:  
III.  Signatories:  
• CEO/Managing Director 
• CFO 
• Audit Committee Chairman 
• Statutory Auditor 
Place:  
Date:    
*****

[Page 25]
Page 25 of 44 
 
Annexure 2 
DISQUALIFICATIONS FOR A SECRETARIAL AUDITOR  
1. For the pur pose of Regulation 24A (1A) of the LODR Regulations, the following persons 
shall not be eligible to be appointed / continue as a Secretarial Auditor of the listed entity, 
namely: — 
a) a body corporate other than a limited liability partnership registered under the 
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008; 
b) an officer or employee of the listed entity; 
c) a person who is a partner, or who is in the employment, of an officer or employee 
of the listed entity; 
d) a person who, or his relative or partner— 
i. is holding security of or interest in the listed entity or its subsidiary, or of its 
holding or associate entity or a subsidiary of such holding entity  to which 
the listed entity is also a subsidiary , of face value exceeding one lakh 
rupees; 
ii. is indebted to the listed entity, or its subsidiary, or its holding or a ssociate 
entity or a subsidiary of such holding entity to which the listed entity is also 
a subsidiary, in excess of five lakh rupees; or 
iii. has given a guarantee or provided any security in connection with the 
indebtedness of any third person to the listed entity, or its subsidiary, or its 
holding or associate entity or a subsidiary of such holding entity  to which 
the listed entity is also a subsidiary, in excess of one lakh rupees; 
e) a person or a firm who, whether directly or indirectly, has business relationship with 
the listed entity, or its subsidiary, or its holding or associate entity or subsidiary of 
such holding entity; 
 
Explanation I — For the purposes of this clause, the term “business relationship” 
shall be construed as any transaction entered into f or a commercial purpose, 
except - 
i. commercial transactions which are in the nature of professional services 
permitted to be rendered by a secretarial auditor or secretarial audit firm 
under the Companies Act, 2013, Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992, Companies Secretaries Act, 1980 , and the rules or the regulations 
made under those Acts; 
ii. commercial transactions which are in the ordinary course of business of the 
company at arm’s length price - like sale of products or services to the 
secretarial auditor, as customer, in the ordinary course of business, by 
companies engaged in the business of telecommunications, airlines, 
hospitals, hotels and such other similar businesses. 
 
Explanation II — For the purpose of this clause, the term “directly or indirectly” shall 
mean, — 
i. in case of an individual, either himself or through his relative or any other 
person connected or associated with such individual or through any other 
entity, whatsoever, in which such individual has significant influence or 
control, or whose name or trade mark or brand is used by such individual;

[Page 26]
Page 26 of 44 
 
ii. in case of a firm, either itself or through any of its partners or through its 
parent, subsidiary or associate entity or through any other entity, 
whatsoever, in which the firm or any part ner of the firm has significant 
influence or control, or whose name or trade mark or brand is used by the 
firm or any of its partners.  
 
f) a person whose relative is a director or is in the employment of the listed entity as 
a director or key managerial personnel; 
g) a person who is in full time employment elsewhere or a person or a partner of a 
firm holding appointment as its secretarial auditor, if such persons or partner is at 
the date of such appointment or reappointment holding appointment as secretarial 
auditor of 15 or more than 15 companies; 
h) a person who has been convicted by a court of an offence involving fraud and a 
period of ten years has not elapsed from the date of such conviction; 
i) a person who, directly or indirectly, renders any service prohibited under sub-
regulation (1B) of regulation 24A to the  listed entity or its holding or its subsidiary 
entities. 
*****

[Page 27]
Page 27 of 44 
 
Annexure 3 
SERVICES NOT TO BE RENDERED BY THE SECRETARIAL AUDITOR 
 
1. For the purpose of Regulation 24A (1B) of the LODR Regulations , a secreta rial auditor 
appointed under the LODR regulations, shall not provide any of the following services 
(whether such services are rendered directly or indirectly) to the listed entity, or its holding 
entity or subsidiary entity, namely:  
i. internal audit; 
ii. design and implementation of any compliance management system , 
information system, policy framework , systems or processes for 
compliance; 
iii. investment advisory services; 
iv. investment banking services; 
v. rendering of outsourced compliance management, record keeping & 
maintenance services;   
vi. management services; and 
vii. any other kind of services as may be specified from time to time.  
 
Explanation:- The term “directly or indirectly” shall include rendering of services by the 
secretarial auditor, — 
iii. in case of secretarial auditor being an individual, either himself or through 
his relative or any other person connected or associated with such 
individual or through any other entity, whatsoever, in which such individual 
has significant influence or control, or whose name or trade mark or brand 
is used by such individual; 
iv. in case of secretarial auditor being a firm, either itself or through any of its 
partners or through its parent, subsidiary or associate entity or through any 
other entity, whatsoever, in which the firm or any par tner of the firm has 
significant influence or control, or whose name or trade mark or brand is 
used by the firm or any of its partners. 
 
*****

[Page 28]
Page 28 of 44 
 
Annexure 4 
CHANGES TO SEBI MASTER CIRCULAR DATED NOVEMBER 11, 2024  
Chapter / section 
number and para 
number of the 
Master Circular 
Existing provision Changes proposed to the 
existing provision 
Revised provision of the Master Circular 
 
Changes pursuant to implementation of Integrated Filing  
Chapter II, Section 
II-B and Annexures 
3, 4, 5 and 6 
1. The applicability of the corporate 
governance provisions of the LODR 
Regulations i.e., regulations 17 to 27 
and certain provisions of regulation 46 
and Schedule V, is specified in 
regulation 15(2) of the LODR 
Regulations.  
 
2. In terms of regulation 27(2) of LODR 
Regulations, the listed entity is 
required to submit a quarterly 
compliance report on corporate 
governance in the format specified by 
the Board from time to time, to 
recognised Stock Exchange(s). 
 
3. Accordingly, the submission of 
compliance report on Corporate 
Governance shall be as under: 
 
a) Annexure 3 – on quarterly basis 
b) Annexure 4 – at the end of the 
financial year 
c) Annexure 5 – at the end of 6 months 
from the close of financial year 
To be omitted as it will 
become part of Integrated 
Filing (Governance) . 
Therefore, Section II-B 
along with Annexures 3-6 to 
be omitted. 
[***]

[Page 29]
Page 29 of 44 
 
Chapter / section 
number and para 
number of the 
Master Circular 
Existing provision Changes proposed to the 
existing provision 
Revised provision of the Master Circular 
 
d) Annexure 6 – on a half yearly basis. 
 
4. Listed entities shall submit the 
compliance report  on corporate 
governance as per the formats 
specified above. In case of non -
applicability of the corporate 
governance provisions, the listed 
entity shall submit a declaration to that 
effect, duly signed by the compliance 
officer or the chief executive offi cer 
accompanied by a certificate from a 
PCA or a PCS, to the Stock 
Exchange(s), at the beginning of 
every financial year. 
Chapter III, Section 
III-A, Para 3 
3. Therefore, the formats fo r unaudited / 
audited quarterly financial results i.e., 
Statement of Profit and Loss and the 
unaudited / audited half -yearly balance 
sheet to be submitted by listed entities 
shall be as per the formats for balance 
sheet and statement of profit and loss 
(excluding notes and detailed sub -
classification) as prescribed in Schedule 
III to the Companies Act, 2013, as 
amended from time to time. Listed 
banking and insurance companies shall 
follow the formats as prescribed  under  
the  respective  Acts  /  Regulatio ns  and  
The formats shall be as 
specified in Integrated Filing 
(Financial). 
3. Therefore, listed entities shall follow  the formats 
specified in Integrated Filing (Financial).

[Page 30]
Page 30 of 44 
 
Chapter / section 
number and para 
number of the 
Master Circular 
Existing provision Changes proposed to the 
existing provision 
Revised provision of the Master Circular 
 
/  or  as  specified  by  the  sectoral 
regulators. 
Chapter III, Section 
III-A, Para 8 
8. The financial results published in the 
newspapers in terms of regulation 
47(1)(b) of the LODR Regulations shall be 
in the format as specified in Annexure 9 to 
this circular. The banking and insurance 
companies may include additional 
disclosures, if any, specified by the 
sectoral regulators. 
Reference to the regulations 
to be updated based on the 
recent amendments. 
8. The detailed financial results published in the 
newspapers in terms of regulation 47(1)  of the 
LODR Regulations shall be in the for mat as 
specified in Annexure 9 to this circular. The banking 
and insurance companies may include additional 
disclosures, if any, specified by the sectoral 
regulators. 
Chapter III, Section 
III-A, Para 18  and 
Annexure 12 
18. Therefore, every listed entity s hall 
submit the Statement on Impact of Audit 
Qualifications, for audit report with 
modified opinion, in the format specified at 
Annexure 12  to this circular. The 
management of the listed entity shall have 
the option to explain its views on the audit 
qualifications. The recognized stock 
exchange(s) shall review the aforesaid 
statement in terms of regulation 95 of the 
LODR Regulations and monitor it as part 
of its regular monitoring as specified in 
regulation 97 of the LODR Regulations.  
Reference to be given to the 
format specified in 
Integrated Filing (Financial). 
Annexure 12 to be omitted. 
18. Therefore, every listed entity shall submit the 
Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications, for 
audit report with modified opinion, in the format 
specified in Integrated Filing (Financial) . The 
management of the listed entity shall have the option 
to explain its views on the audit qualifications. The 
recognized stock exchange(s) shall review the 
aforesaid statement in terms of regulation 95 of the 
LODR Regulations and  monitor it as part of its 
regular monitoring as specified in regulation 97 of 
the LODR Regulations. 
Chapter III, Section 
III-B, para 2  and 
Annexure 13 
2. Accordingly, listed entities shall make 
RPT disclosures in the format specified in 
Annexure 13 to this circular.  
 
Reference to be given to the 
format specified in 
Integrated Filing (Financial). 
Annexure 13 to be omitted. 
 
2. Accordingly, listed entities shall make RPT 
disclosures in the  format specified in Integrated 
Filing (Financial).

[Page 31]
Page 31 of 44 
 
Chapter / section 
number and para 
number of the 
Master Circular 
Existing provision Changes proposed to the 
existing provision 
Revised provision of the Master Circular 
 
Chapter III, Section 
III-C, para 2 , 3 & 4  
and Annexure 14 
2. A common format for such reporting will 
aid the monitoring of the end use of issue 
proceeds raised by listed entities through 
public issue, rights issue, preferential 
issue, QIP etc. by Stock Exchanges. 
Hence, for the purpose of compliance with 
regulations 32(1), 32(2) and 32(3) of the 
LODR Regulations, listed entities shall 
follow the format specified at Annexure 14 
to this circular. 
 
Reference to be given to the 
format specified in 
Integrated Filing (Financial). 
Annexure 14 to be omitted. 
2. A common format for such reporting w ill aid the 
monitoring of the end use of issue proceeds raised 
by listed entities through public issue, rights issue, 
preferential issue, QIP etc. by Stock Exchanges. 
Hence, for the purpose of compliance with 
regulations 32(1), 32(2) and 32(3) of the LODR 
Regulations, listed entities shall follow the format 
specified in Integrated Filing (Financial). 
 
3. The salient features of the format are 
as under: 
 
3.1) Applicability: The format shall be 
applicable for funds raised by listed 
entities through public issue, rights issue, 
preferential issue, QIPs etc.  
  
3.2) Frequency of Disclosure : The 
disclosure to the Stock Exchange(s) shall 
be made by listed entities on quarterly 
basis along with the declaration of 
financial results (within 45 days of end of 
each quarter / 60 days from the end of the 
last quarter of the financial year) until such 
funds are fully utilised or the purpose for 
which these proceeds were raised has 
been achieved. 
….  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Timeline to be omitted. The 
timeline for Integrated Filing 
(Financial) would be 
applicable.  
3. The salient features of the format are as under: 
 
3.1) Applicability: The format shall be applicable for 
funds raised by listed entities through public issue, 
rights issue, preferential issue, QIPs etc.  
  
3.2) Frequency of Disclosure: The disclosure to the 
Stock Exchange(s) shall be made by listed entities 
on quarterly as part of the Integrated Filing 
(Financial) until such funds are fully utilised or the 
purpose for which these proceeds were raised has 
been achieved. 
 
3.3) Role of the Audit Committee: The statement of 
deviation report shall be placed before audit 
committee of the listed entity for review on quarterly 
basis and after such review, the comments of audit 
committee along with the report shall be

[Page 32]
Page 32 of 44 
 
Chapter / section 
number and para 
number of the 
Master Circular 
Existing provision Changes proposed to the 
existing provision 
Revised provision of the Master Circular 
 
disclosed/submitted to the stock exchange, as part 
of the format. 
 
In cases where the listed entity is not required to 
have an audit committee under the provisions of 
LODR Regulations or the Companies Act, 2013, the 
word ‘Audit Committee’ shall be replaced with ‘Board 
of Directors’. 
 
 
4. A NIL report shall be submitted by listed 
entities that do not have any deviation or 
variation in the funds raised. 
To be omitted. [***] 
 
 
Chapter V, Section 
V-B, Para 5.2 
5.2 Disclosures specified in the table 
below shall be made by list ed entities, if 
on the last date of any quarter: 
a. Any loan including revolving 
facilities like cash credit from 
banks / financial institutions where 
the default continues beyond 30 
days or 
b. There is any outstanding debt 
security under default. 
….. 
 
The above  disclosure shall be made 
within 7 days  from the end of each 
quarter. 
 
The format for quarterly 
disclosure of outstanding 
default on loans / debt 
securities has been made 
part of the Integrated Filing 
(Financial). Therefore, the 
existing timeline mentioned  
in the circular to be omitted. 
5.2 Disclosures specified in the table below shall be 
made by listed entities, if on the last date of any 
quarter: 
a. Any loan including revolving facilities like 
cash credit from banks / financial institutions 
where the default continues beyond 30 days 
or 
b. There is any outstanding debt security under 
default. 
 
S. 
N
o. 
Particulars in INR 
crore 
1. Loans / revolving facilities like cash credit 
from banks / financial institutions 
A Total amount outstanding as on date

[Page 33]
Page 33 of 44 
 
Chapter / section 
number and para 
number of the 
Master Circular 
Existing provision Changes proposed to the 
existing provision 
Revised provision of the Master Circular 
 
B Of the total amount outstanding, amount 
of default as on date 
 
2. Unlisted debt securities i.e. NCDs and NCRPS 
A Total amount outstanding as on date  
B Of the total amount outstanding, amount 
of default as on date 
 
3. Total financial indebtedness of the 
listed entity including short-term and 
long-term debt 
 
 
The above disclosure shall be part of the quarterly 
Integrated Filing (Financial) of the listed entity.  
Changes required for implementation of System driven disclosure of certain filings 
Chapter II, Secti on 
II-A para 6  of the 
Master Circular. 
6. All listed entities shall also disclose 
details pertaining to foreign ownership 
limits indicating the board approved 
limits and utilization in the format 
prescribed in Table VI of Annexure 2  
to this circular. 
The prov ision needs to be 
modified to take into account 
system driven disclosure  of 
shareholding pattern. 
6. All listed entities shall also ensure disclosure of 
details pertaining to foreign ownership limits 
indicating the board approved limits and 
utilization in the format prescribed in Table VI of 
Annexure 2 to this circular. 
Chapter II, Section 
II-A para 8.3 of the 
Master Circular. 
8.3 The Depositories shall provide the 
shareholding data to listed entities in the 
requisite categorization as specified in 
this Section. 
 
Under system driven 
disclosure, data needs to be 
made available by 
depositories to Stock 
Exchanges also as 
dissemination would happen 
at the Stock Exchanges’ end 
after obtaining necessary 
8.3 The Depositories shall provide the shareholding 
data to listed entities and / or Stock Exchanges  in 
the requisite categorization as specified in this 
Section.

[Page 34]
Page 34 of 44 
 
Chapter / section 
number and para 
number of the 
Master Circular 
Existing provision Changes proposed to the 
existing provision 
Revised provision of the Master Circular 
 
confirmations from the listed 
entity. 
 
Chapter II, Section 
II-A para 9 of the 
Master Circular. 
9. Listed  entities  shall  disclose  the  
shareholding  pa ttern  in  the  formats  
specified  above for  the purpose of 
compliance with regulation 31(1)of the 
LODR Regulations. 
The provision needs to be 
modified to take into account 
system driven disclosure of 
shareholding pattern. 
9. Listed entities shall ensure disclosure of  the 
shareholding pattern in the formats  specified  above 
for  the purpose of compliance with regulation 
31(1)of the LODR Regulations. 
 
 
 
 
Changes pursuant to other recommendations of the Expert Committee 
Chapter VII, 
Section VII-A, para 
6.1, sl. No. 19 of the 
Master Circular 
Regulation 31A(3)(a) 
 
Non-compliance 
pertaining to delay in 
submission of 
reclassification 
application to stock 
exchanges 
Rs.  5,000 
per day 
 
Fines to be imposed for non-
compliance with the 
timelines specified for 
various events relating to  
reclassification of promoter / 
promoter group into public. 
Regulation 31A(3)(a)(ii) / 
(iii) /  (v) / (vii) 
 
Non-compliance with the 
requirements for 
reclassification of 
promoter / promoter 
group entity  
Rs.  5,000 
per day 
 
Chapter VI, section 
VI-H, para 2.1  of 
the Master Circular. 
2.1 Group Governance Unit: 
 
2.1.1 Where  the listed entity has a 
large number of unlisted subsidiaries: 
i. The listed entity may monitor 
their governance through a 
dedicated group governance 
Bringing in clarity on the 
provisions relating to 
composition of Group 
Governance Unit as 
suggested by the Expert 
Committee. 
2.1 Group Governance Unit: 
 
2.1.1 Where the listed entity has a large number 
of unlisted subsidiaries: 
i. The listed entity may monitor their 
governance through a dedicated group

[Page 35]
Page 35 of 44 
 
Chapter / section 
number and para 
number of the 
Master Circular 
Existing provision Changes proposed to the 
existing provision 
Revised provision of the Master Circular 
 
unit or Governance Committee 
comprising the members of its 
board of directors. 
ii. A strong and effective group 
governance policy may be 
established by the entity.  
iii. The decision of setting up of 
such a unit/committee or 
having such a policy shall lie 
with the board of director s of 
the listed entity. 
governance unit or Governance 
Committee. 
ii. A strong and effective group governance 
policy may be established by the entity. 
iii. [***] 
Annexure 18, Para 
A, sub-para 1 of the 
Master Circular. 
- In case of ‘to be 
incorporated’ companies, 
the relevant details to be 
provided at the time of 
acquisition of such 
companies to be separately 
specified after point 1.1 
under sub-para 1 of Para A 
of Annexure 18 of the Master 
Circular. 
1.1.A. Acquisition of ‘ to be incorporated’ 
companies: 
(i) name of the entity, date & country of 
incorporation, etc.;  
(ii) name of holding company of the incorporated 
company and relation with the listed entity; 
(iii) industry to which the entity being incorporated 
belongs; 
(iv) brief background about the entity incorporated 
in terms of products / line of business; 
(v) brief details of any governmental or regulatory 
approvals required for the incorporation; 
(vi) nature of consideration - whether cash 
consideration or share swap and details of the 
same; 
(vii) cost of subscription / price at which the shares 
are subscribed;

[Page 36]
Page 36 of 44 
 
Chapter / section 
number and para 
number of the 
Master Circular 
Existing provision Changes proposed to the 
existing provision 
Revised provision of the Master Circular 
 
(viii) percentage of shareholding / control by the 
listed entity and / or number of shares allotted. 
 
Annexure 18, Para 
B, sub-para 8 of the 
Master Circular. 
8. Pendency of any litigation(s) or 
dispute(s) or the outcome thereof 
which may have an impact on the listed 
entity: The listed entity shall notify the 
stock exchange(s) upon it or its director or 
its key management personnel or its 
senior management or its promoter or its 
subsidiary becoming party to any 
litigation, assessment, adjudication, 
arbitration or dispute in conciliation 
proceedings or upon institution of any 
litigation, assessment, adjudication, 
arbitration or dispute including any ad -
interim or interim orders passed  against 
or in favour of the listed entity, the 
outcome of which can reasonably be 
expected to have an impact. In case the 
amount involved in ongoing litigations or 
disputes with an opposing party become 
material on a cumulative basis, then the 
same shall also be required to be  
disclosed to the stock exchange(s). 
The manner of disclosure of 
tax litigation or dispute 
based on application of 
materiality criteria  to be 
specified under sub -para 8 
of Para B of Annexure 18 of 
the Master Circular. 
8. Pendency of any litigation(s) or di spute(s) or 
the outcome thereof which may have an impact 
on the listed entity: The listed entity shall notify the 
stock exchange(s) upon it or its director or its key 
management personnel or its senior management or 
its promoter or its subsidiary becoming party to any 
litigation, assessment, adjudication, arbitration or 
dispute in conciliation proceedings or upon 
institution of any litigation, assessment, 
adjudication, arbitration or dispute including any ad-
interim or interim orders passed  against or in favour 
of the listed entity, the outcome of which can 
reasonably be expected to have an impact. In case 
the amount involved in ongoing litigations or 
disputes become material on a cumulative basis, 
then the same shall also be required to be disclosed 
to the stock exchange(s). 
 
Explanation - Tax litigations or disputes, including 
demand notices, penalties, etc., shall be disclosed 
under sub-para 8 of Para B based on application of 
criteria for materiality in the following manner: 
(i) Disclosure of new tax litigat ions or disputes 
within twenty -four hours from the receipt of 
notice by the listed entity. 
(ii) Quarterly updates on ongoing tax litigations or 
disputes in the format as may be specified.

[Page 37]
Page 37 of 44 
 
Chapter / section 
number and para 
number of the 
Master Circular 
Existing provision Changes proposed to the 
existing provision 
Revised provision of the Master Circular 
 
(iii) Tax litigations or disputes, the outcomes of 
which are likely to have a h igh correlation, 
should be cumulated for determining materiality. 
Annexure 18A of 
the Master Circular. 
TIMELINE FOR DISCLOSING EVENTS 
GIVEN IN PART A OF SCHEDULE III OF 
THE LODR REGULATIONS 
 
….. 
Annexure 18A of the Master 
Circular on timelines for 
disclosure of material events 
or information is being  
modified in line with the 
amendments to the LODR 
Regulations and changes to 
Annexure 18 of the Master 
Circular. Annexure 18A of 
the Master Circular to be 
substituted by Annexure 5 to 
this circular. 
Please refer Annexure 5 of this circular on ‘Timeline 
for disclosing events given in Part A of Schedule III 
of the LODR Regulations.’ 
 
******

[Page 38]
Page 38 of 44 
 
Annexure 5 
 
TIMELINE FOR DISCLOSING EVENTS GIVEN IN PART A OF SCHEDULE III OF THE 
LODR REGULATIONS 
 
1. Regulation 30(6) of the LODR Regulations specifies that the listed entity shall first 
disclose to the stock exchange(s) all events or information which are material in terms 
of the provisions of the LODR Regulations as soon as reasonably possible and in any 
case not later than the following: 
i. thirty minutes from the closure of the meeting of the board of directors in which 
the decision pertaining to the event or information has been taken;  however, 
in case the meeting of the board of directors closes after normal trading hours 
of that day but more than three hours before the beginning of the normal 
trading hours of the next trading day, the listed entity shall disclose the decision 
pertaining to the event or information, within three hours from the clos ure of 
the board meeting; 
ii. twelve hours from the occurrence of the event or information, in case the event 
or information is emanating from within the listed entity; 
iii. twenty four hours from the occurrence of the event or information, in case the 
event or information is not emanating from within the listed entity. 
 
Further, disclosure with respect to events for which timelines have been specified in 
Part A of Schedule III of the LODR Regulations shall be made within such timelines. 
 
2. In order to bring clarity i n the above timelines for disclosure of material events or 
information, the timeline for disclosure of events specified in Part A of Schedule III of 
the LODR Regulations is given in the table below: 
 
Table I: Timeline for disclosure of events specified in Part A of Schedule III of the 
LODR Regulations 
 
Para 
/ 
sub-
para 
Events Timeline for disclosure 
A. Events which shall be disclosed without any 
application of the guidelines for materiality as 
specified in sub-regulation (4) of regulation (30): 
 
1. Acquisition(s) (including agreement to acquire), 
Scheme of Arrangement (amalgamation/ merger/ 
demerger/restructuring), sale or disposal of any 
unit(s), division(s), whole or substantially the whole of 
the undertaking(s) or subsidiary of the listed entity, 
sale of stake in the associate company of the listed 
entity or any other restructuring. 
Within 12 hours *  
 
Acquisition of shares or 
voting rights by listed 
entities in an unlisted 
company, aggregating to 
5% or any subsequent 
change in holding 
exceeding 2%, shall  be

[Page 39]
Page 39 of 44 
 
Para 
/ 
sub-
para 
Events Timeline for disclosure 
disclosed quarterly as part 
of Integrated Filing 
(Governance). 
2. Issuance or forfeiture of securities, split or 
consolidation of shares, buyback of securities, any 
restriction on transferability of securities or alteration 
in terms or structure of ex isting securities including 
forfeiture, reissue of forfeited securities, alteration of 
calls, redemption of securities etc. 
Within 12 hours * 
3. New Ratings(s) or Revision in Rating(s). Within 24 hours 
4. Outcome of Meetings of the board of directors As specified in clause (i) of 
Regulation 30(6) of LODR. 
5. Agreements (viz. shareholder agreement(s), joint 
venture agreement(s), family settlement 
agreement(s) (to the extent that it impacts 
management and control of the listed entity), 
agreement(s)/treaty(ies)/contract(s) with media 
companies) which are binding and not in normal 
course of business, revision(s) or amendment(s) and 
termination(s) thereof. 
 
Within 12 hours * (for 
agreements where listed 
entity is a party); 
 
Within 24 hours  
(for agreements where 
listed entity is not a party). 
5A. Agreements entered into by the shareholders, 
promoters, promoter group entities, related parties, 
directors, key managerial personnel, employees of 
the listed entity or of its holding, subsidiary or 
associate company,  among themselves or with the 
listed entity or with a third party, solely or jointly, 
which, either directly or indirectly or potentially or 
whose purpose and effect is to, impact the 
management or control of the listed entity or impose 
any restriction or create any liability upon the listed 
entity, shall be disclosed to the Stock Exchanges, 
including disclosure of any rescission, amendment or 
alteration of such agreements thereto, whether or not 
the listed entity is a party to such agreements: 
Provided tha t such agreements entered into by a 
listed entity in the normal course of business shall not 
be required to be disclosed unless they, either directly 
or indirectly or potentially or whose purpose and effect 
is to, impact the management or control of the li sted 
entity or they are required to be disclosed in terms of 
any other provisions of these regulations. 
Within 12 hours * (for 
agreements where listed 
entity is a party); 
 
Within 24 hours 
(for agreements where 
listed entity is not a party).

[Page 40]
Page 40 of 44 
 
Para 
/ 
sub-
para 
Events Timeline for disclosure 
6. Fraud or de faults by a listed entity, its promoter, 
director, key managerial personnel, senior 
management or subsidiary or arrest of key managerial 
personnel, senior management, promoter or director 
whether occurred within India or abroad. 
Within 24 hours 
7. Change in directors, key managerial personnel 
(Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, Company Secretary etc.), senior 
management, Auditor and Compliance Officer. 
Within 12 hours * (except 
in case resignation); 
 
Within 24 hours (in case of 
resignation) 
7A. In case of resignation of the auditor of the listed entity, 
detailed reasons for resignation of auditor, as given by 
the said auditor. 
Timeline as specified in 
sub-para 7A of Para A of 
Schedule III. 
7B. Resignation of independent director including reasons 
for resignation. 
Timeline as specified in 
sub-para 7B of Para A of 
Schedule III. 
7C. Letter of resignation along with detailed reasons for 
the resignation as given by the key managerial 
personnel, senior management, Compliance Of ficer 
or director. 
Timeline as specified in 
sub-para 7C of Para A of 
Schedule III. 
7D. In case the Managing Director or Chief Executive 
Officer of the listed entity was indisposed or 
unavailable to fulfil the requirements of the role in a 
regular manner f or more than forty five days in any 
rolling period of ninety days, the same along with the 
reasons for such indisposition or unavailability, shall 
be disclosed to the stock exchange(s). 
Within 12 hours * 
8. Appointment or discontinuation of share transfer  
agent. 
Within 12 hours * 
9. Resolution plan/ Restructuring in relation to 
loans/borrowings from banks/financial institutions. 
Within 24 hours 
10. One time settlement with a bank. Within 24 hours 
11. Winding-up petition filed by any party / creditors. Within 24 hours 
12. Issuance of n otices, call letters, resolutions and 
circulars sent to shareholders, debenture holders or 
creditors or any class of them or advertised in the 
media by the listed entity. 
Within 12 hours * 
13. Proceedings of a nnual and ext raordinary general 
meetings of the listed entity. 
Within 12 hours * 
14. Amendments to memorandum and articles of 
association of listed entity, in brief.  
Within 12 hours *

[Page 41]
Page 41 of 44 
 
Para 
/ 
sub-
para 
Events Timeline for disclosure 
15. (a) Schedule of analysts or institutional investors 
meet and presentations made by the listed entity 
to analysts or institutional investors. 
(b) Audio or video recordings and transcripts of post 
earnings/quarterly calls, by whatever name 
called, conducted physically or through digital 
means. 
Timeline as specified in 
sub-para 15 of Para A of 
Schedule III. 
16. Events in relation to the corporate insolvency 
resolution process (CIRP) of a listed corporate debtor 
under the Insolvency Code. 
Within 24 hours 
17. Initiation of Forensic audit: In case of initiation of 
forensic audit, (by whatever na me called), the 
following disclosures shall be made to the stock 
exchanges by listed entities: 
(a) The fact of initiation of forensic audit along-with 
name of entity initiating the audit and reasons 
for the same, if available; 
(b) Final forensic audit report (othe r than for 
forensic audit initiated by regulatory / 
enforcement agencies) on receipt by the listed 
entity along with comments of the 
management, if any. 
Within 12 hours * 
(if initiated by the listed 
entity); 
 
Within 24 hours 
(if initiated by external 
agency). 
18. Announcement or communication through social 
media intermediaries or mainstream media by 
directors, promoters, key managerial personnel or 
senior management of a listed entity, in relation to any 
event or information which is material for the list ed 
entity in terms of regulation 30 of these regulations 
and is not already made available in the public domain 
by the listed entity. 
Within 24 hours 
19. Action(s) initiated or orders passed by any regulatory, 
statutory, enforcement authority or judicial body 
against the listed entity or its directors, key managerial 
personnel, senior management, promoter or 
subsidiary, in relation to the listed entity, in respect of 
the following: 
(a) search or seizure; or 
(b) re-opening of accounts under section 130 of 
the Companies Act, 2013; or 
(c) investigation under the provisions of Chapter 
XIV of the Companies Act, 2013; 
Within 24 hours

[Page 42]
Page 42 of 44 
 
Para 
/ 
sub-
para 
Events Timeline for disclosure 
20. Action(s) taken or orders passed by any regulatory, 
statutory, enforcement authority or judicial body 
against the listed entity or its directors, key managerial 
personnel, senior management, promoter or 
subsidiary, in relation to the listed entity, in respect of 
the following: 
(a) suspension; 
(b) Imposition of fine or penalty; 
(c) settlement of proceedings;   
(d) debarment; 
(e) disqualification; 
(f) closure of operations; 
(g) sanctions imposed; 
(h) warning or caution; or 
(i) any other similar action(s) by whatever name 
called; 
Within 24 hours 
 
Imposition of fine or penalty 
which are lower than the 
monetary thresholds 
specified under Para A(20) 
of Part A of Schedule III of 
LODR shall be disclosed 
quarterly as part of 
Integrated Filing 
(Governance). 
21. Voluntary revision of financial statements or the report 
of the board of directors of the listed entity under 
section 131 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
Within 12 hours * 
B. Events which shall be disclosed upon application 
of the guidelines for materiality referred sub -
regulation (4) of regulation (30) 
 
1. Commencement or any postponement in the date of 
commencement of commercial production or 
commercial operations of any unit/division 
Within 12 hours * 
2. Any of the following events pertaining to the listed 
entity: 
(i) arrangements for strategic, technical, 
manufacturing, or marketing tie-up; or 
(ii) adoption of new line(s) of business; or 
(iii) closure of operation of any unit, division, or 
subsidiary (entirety or piecemeal) 
Within 12 hours * 
3. Capacity addition or product launch. Within 12 hours * 
4. Awarding, bagging/ receiving, amendment or 
termination of awarded/bagged orders/contracts not  
in the normal course of business. 
Within 24 hours 
5. Agreements (viz. loan agreement(s)  or any other 
agreement(s) which are binding and not in normal 
course of business) and revision(s) or amendment(s) 
or termination(s) thereof. 
Within 12 hours * (for 
agreements where listed 
entity is a party); 
 
Within 24 hours

[Page 43]
Page 43 of 44 
 
Para 
/ 
sub-
para 
Events Timeline for disclosure 
(for agreements where 
listed entity is not a party). 
6. Disruption of operations of any one or more units or 
division of the listed entity due to natural calamity 
(earthquake, flood, fire etc.), force majeure or events 
such as strikes, lockouts etc. 
Within 24 hours 
7. Effect(s) arising out of change in the regulatory 
framework applicable to the listed entity. 
Within 24 hours 
8. Pendency of any litigation(s) or dispute(s) or the 
outcome thereof wh ich may have an impact on the 
listed entity. 
Within 24 hours (except as 
provided under Regulation 
30(6) of LODR) 
 
Updates on ongoing tax 
litigations or disputes  shall 
be disclosed quarterly as 
part of Integrated Filing 
(Governance). 
9. Frauds or defaults by employees of the listed entity 
which has or may have an impact on the listed entity. 
Within 24 hours 
10. Options to purchase securities including any 
ESOP/ESPS Scheme. 
Within 12 hours * 
11. Giving of guarantees or indemnity or becoming a 
surety, by whatever name called, for any third party. 
Within 12 hours * 
12. Granting, withdrawal, surrender, cancellation or 
suspension of key licenses or regulatory approvals. 
Within 24 hours 
13. Delay or default in the payment of fines, penalties, 
dues, etc. to any regulatory, statutory, enforcement or 
judicial authority. 
Within 12 hours * 
C. Any other information/event viz. major development 
that is likely to affect business, e.g. emergence of new 
technologies, expiry of patents, any change of 
accounting policy that may have a significant impact 
on the accounts, etc. and brief details thereof and any 
other information which is exclusively known to the 
listed entity which may be necessary to enable the 
holders of securities of the listed entity to appraise its 
position and to avoid the establishment of a false 
market in such securities. 
Within 24 hours 
D. Without prejudice to the generality of para (A), (B) and 
(C) above, the listed entity may make disclosures of 
event/information as specified by the Board from time 
to time. 
Timeline as specified by 
the Board.

[Page 44]
Page 44 of 44 
 
* Note: In case the event or information emanates from a decision taken in a meeting of 
board of directors, the same shall be disclosed within 30 minutes or 3 hours, as applicable 
as per Regulation 30(6), from the closure of such meeting as against the timeline indicated 
in the table above. 
 
3. The timeline for making disclosure under Regulation 30A of the LODR Regulations is 
given below: 
 Reg. 30A(1): the parties to the agreements shall inform the listed entity about 
the agreement to which such a listed entity is not a party within two working 
days of entering into the agreement or signing an agreement to enter into such 
agreements. 
 
*****
