[Page 1]
1 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS) 
REGULATIONS, 2014 
  [Amended up to April 18, 2026] 
 
No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/11/1576 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read 
with section 11 and 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), 
laying down a framework for Real Estate Investment Trusts and registration and regulation 
thereof, the Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby, makes the following regulations, 
namely, — 
 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Official Gazette. 
 
Definitions. 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their c ognate expressions shall be construed 
accordingly,–   
(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b)  “associate” of any person 1[shall be as defined under the Companies Act, 2013 or 
under the applicable accounting standards and shall also include following],- 
 (i) any person controlled, directly or indirectly, by the said person;  
 (ii) any person who controls, directly or indirectly, the said person;  
  (iii) where the said person is a company or a body corporate, any perso n(s) 
 who is designated as promoter(s) of the company  or body corporate and any 
 other company or body corporate with the same promoter(s); 
 (iv) where the said person is an individual, any relative of the individual;  
                                                 
1 Substituted for "includes" by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016

[Page 2]
2 
 
 (v) 2[***] 
 (vi) 3[***] 
 (vii) 4[***] 
 (viii) 5[***] 
(c) "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 
3 of the Act; 
(d) “body corporate” shall have the meaning assigned to it in or under sub-section (11) of 
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
(e) “bonus issue” means additional units allotted to the unit holders as on the record date 
fixed for the said purpose, without any cost to the unit holder; 
(f)  “certificate” means a certificate of registration granted under these regulations; 
(g) 6[“change in control”, - 
(i) in case of a body corporate, - 
(A) if its shares are listed on any recognized stock exchange, shall be construed 
with reference to the definition of control in terms of regulations framed under 
clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act; 
(B) if its shares are not listed on any recognized stock exchange, shall be construed 
with reference to the definition of control as provided in sub -section (27) of 
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013); 
                                                 
2 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior 
to its omission, sub-clause (v) read as under : 
“where the said person is a company or a body corporate or an LLP, its group companies;”  
3 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior 
to its omission, sub-clause (vi) read as under :  
“companies or LLPs under the same management;” 
4 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior 
to its omission, sub-clause (vii) read as under :  
 “where the said person is a REIT, related parties to the REIT;” 
5 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior 
to its omission, sub-clause (viii) read as under :  
“any company or LLP or body corporate in which the  person or its director(s) or partner(s) hold(s), either 
individually or collectively, more than fifteen percent of its paid-up equity share capital or partnership interest, as 
the case may be;” 
6 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 01.04.2023. Prior to substitution it read as follows: 
“(g) "change in control" means,- 
(i) in case of a company or body corporate, change in control where 'control' shall have the 
meaning as provided in sub-section (27) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
(ii) in any other case, change in the controlling interest; 
Explanation.─ For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means an interest, whether 
direct or indirect, to the extent of [not less] than fifty percent of voting rights or interest;”

[Page 3]
3 
 
(ii) in a case other than a body corporate, shall be construed as any change in its legal 
formation or ownership or change in controlling interest. 
Explanation- For the purpose of sub -clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” 
means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of not less than fifty percent 
of voting rights or interest;] 
7[(ga) “common infrastructure” includes facilities or amenities such as power plants, district 
or retail heating  and cooling systems, water treatment or processing plants, waste 
treatment or processing p lants and any  facilities or amenities incidental to real estate 
business which exclusively supply or cater to, or are  exclusively consumed by the 
REIT, its HoldCo(s) or SPV(s), irrespective of whether such facilities or amenities are 
co-located within any project of REIT or not: 
Provided that in case of common infrastructure, any excess production or capacity, not 
consumed by the REIT, its HoldCo(s) or SPV(s), may be sold or supplied to a central 
or state grid or utility in accordance with  the applicable laws, subject to the following 
conditions: 
(i)  the manager shall make adequate disclosures in the annual report to demonstrate 
that the excess  production or capacity could not be consumed by the REIT, its 
HoldCo(s) and SPV(s); 
(ii)  the credits or payments received from such sale or supply of excess production or 
capacity are applied towards the payments to be made by the REIT, its HoldCo(s) 
or SPV(s); and 
(iii) the manager shall make adequate disclosures related to sale or supply of such 
excess production or capacity in the annual report, including disclosures related to 
utilization of credits or payments received against such sale or supply, and the same 
shall be audited by the auditor of the REIT.] 
(h) “company” means a company as defined under sub-section (20) of section 2 of the 
Companies Act, 2013; 
(i) “completed property” means property for which occupancy certificate has been 
received from the relevant authority; 
                                                 
7 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 4]
4 
 
(j) “credit rating agency” means a credit rating agency registered with the Board under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999; 
(k)  “custodian” means a person registered with the Board under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Custodian of Securities) Regulations, 1996; 
8[(ka) “debt securities” shall be as defined under Regulation 2(1)(e) of SEBI (Issue and 
Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;] 
(l) “designated stock exchange” means a recognised stock exchange in which units of a 
REIT are listed or proposed to be listed and which is chosen by the REIT as a designated 
stock exchange for the purpose of a particular issue of the units of the REIT under these 
regulations: 
Provided that where one or more of such stock exchanges have nationwide trading 
terminals, the REIT shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange: 
Provided further that subject to the provisions of this clause, the REIT may choose a 
different recognised stock exchange as a designated stock exchange for any subsequent 
issue of units of the REIT under these regulations; 
9[(la) “employee unit option scheme” means a scheme under which the manager grants unit 
options to its employees through an employee benefit trust.  
Explanation. - For the above purpose, employees of the manager shall include all 
directors of the manager except independent directors.] 
(m) "floor space index" or "FSI" shall mean the buildable area on a plot of land as specified 
by the competant authority; 
(n)  “follow–on offer” means offer of units of a listed REIT to the public for subscription 
and includes an offer for sale of REIT units by an existing unit holder to the public; 
(o) 10[***] 
(p) “form” means any of the forms set out in the Schedule I of these regulations; 
11[(pa) "general purposes" include such identified purposes for which no specific 
amount is allocated or any amount so specified towards general purpose or any such 
purpose by whatever name called, in the offer document filed with the Board:  
                                                 
8 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.  
9 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment  Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024. 
10 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior 
to its omission, clause (o) read as under :  
““follow-on offer document” means any document by which follow-on offer is made to the public;” 
11 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.

[Page 5]
5 
 
Provided that any issue related expenses shall not be considered as a part of general 
purpose merely because no specific amount has been allocated for such expenses in the 
offer document filed with the Board;”] 
(q) "governing board” in case of an LLP shall mean a group of members assigned by the 
LLP to act in a manner similar to the Board of directors in case of a company; “initial 
offer” means the first offer of units of an REIT to the public for subscription and 
includes an offer for sale of REIT units by an existing unit holder to the public; 
 
12[(qa) “group entities of the Manager” means: 
(i) entities or person(s) which are controlled by the Manager; 
(ii) entities or person(s) who control the Manager; or 
(iii) entities or person(s) controlled by entities or person(s) specified in sub-clause (ii).] 
 
13[14[(qai)] “holdco” or “holding company” shall mean a company or LLP.,- 
(i) in which REIT holds or proposes to hold 15[***] not less than fifty 16[***] 
per cent. of the equity share capital or interest and which it in turn has  made 
investments in other SPV(s), which ultimately hold the property(ies); 
(ii) which is not engaged in any other activity other than holding of the 
underlying SPV(s), holding of real estate/properties and any other activities 
pertaining to and incidental to such holdings;”; 
17[(qaa) “inducted sponsor” means any person who has been inducted as a sponsor 
in accordance with sub-regulation (8) of regulation 22;] 
18[19[(qb)]  “Independent director” in case of a company means a director, other than a 
nominee director of the Manager: - 
                                                 
12 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023. 
13 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.  
14 Clause (qa) renumbered as clause (qai) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 
Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023. 
15 Words “controlling interest and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
16 Word “one” omitted ibid. 
17 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
16.06.2020. 
18 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 01.04.2023. 
19 Clause (qai) renumbered as clause (qb) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 
Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023.

[Page 6]
6 
 
(i) who, in the opinion of the Board of Directors of the Manager, is a person of 
integrity and possesses relevant expertise and experience; 
(ii) who is not or was not a sponsor of the REIT, a promoter of parties to the 
REIT, their holding, subsidiary or associate or a member of the sponsor group 
of the REIT; 
(iii) who is not related to the REIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the REIT, 
its holding company or associate or their promoters or directors; 
(iv) who, apart from receiving a director's remuneration, does not have or has had 
any material pecuniary relationship with the REIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, 
parties to the REIT, its holding company, the subsidiary or associate or their 
promoters or directors, d uring the three immediately preceding financial 
years or during the current financial year; 
(v) none of whose relatives - 
(A) is holding securities of or interest in the REIT, its Holdco and/or SPV , 
parties to the REIT, their holding Company, subsidiary or associa te 
during the three immediately preceding financial years or during the 
current financial year of face value in excess of fifty lakh rupees or two 
percent of the unit capital of the REIT, two percent of the paid-up capital 
of the parties to the REIT, their  holding Company, subsidiary or 
associate or Holdco and/or SPV respectively or such higher sum as may 
be specified; 
(B) is indebted to the REIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the REIT, its 
holding company, subsidiary or associate or their promoters or directors, 
during the three immediately preceding financial years or during the 
current financial year, in excess of such amount as may be specified; 
(C) has given a guarantee or provided any security in connection with the 
indebtedness of any third person to the REIT, its Holdco or SPV, parties 
to the REIT, its holding company, subsidiary or associate or their 
promoters or directors, during the three immediately preceding financial 
years or during the current financial year, for such amount as may be 
specified; or 
(D) has any other pecuniary transaction or relationship with the REIT, its 
Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the REIT, its holding company, subsidiary

[Page 7]
7 
 
or associate amounting to two percent or more of its gross turnover or 
total income: 
Provided that the pecuniary relationship or transaction with the REIT, its 
Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the REIT, its holding company, subsidiary 
or associate or their promoters or directors in relation to points (A) to 
(D) shall not exceed two percent of its gross turnover or total income or 
fifty lakh rupees or such higher amount as may be specified from time 
to time, whichever is lower. 
(vi) who, neither himself or herself, nor whose relative(s) — 
(A) holds or has held the position of a key managerial personnel or is or has 
been an employee of the Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the REIT or its 
holding, subsidiary or associate or any company belonging to parties to 
the REIT, in any of the three financial years immediately preceding the 
financial year in which he/she is proposed to be appointed: 
Provided that in case of a relative who is an employee other than a key 
managerial personnel, the restriction under this clause shall not apply for 
his/her employment; 
(B) is or has been an employee or proprietor or a partner, in any of the three 
financial years immediately preceding the financial year in which he/she 
is proposed to be appointed, of- 
(1) a firm of auditors or company secretaries in practice or cost 
auditors of the REIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the REIT, 
its holding company, subsidiary or associate; or 
(2) any legal or a consulting firm that has or had any transaction with 
the REIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the REIT, its holding 
company, subsidiary or associate amounting to ten per cent or 
more of the gross turnover of such firm; 
(C) holds together with his relatives two per cent or more of the total voting 
power of the REIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the REIT; 
(D) is a chief executive or director, by whatever name called, of any non - 
profit organisation t hat receives twenty -five per cent or more of its 
receipts or corpus from the REIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the 
REIT, its holding company, subsidiary or associate, any of its promoters,

[Page 8]
8 
 
directors or that holds two per cent or more of the total vot ing power of 
the REIT, its Holdco and/or SPV, parties to the REIT; 
(E) is a material supplier, service provider or customer or a lessor or lessee 
of the REIT, its Holdco and/or SPV , parties to the REIT, its holding 
company, subsidiary or associate; 
(vii) who is not less than 21 years of age; or 
(viii) who possesses such other qualifications as may be specified by the Board.] 
20[(qc)] “initial offer” means the first offer of units of an REIT to the public for 
subscription and includes an offer for sale of REIT units by an existing unit holder to 
the public;] 
(r) 21[***] 
(s) “inspecting officer” means any one or more person appointed by the Board to exercise 
powers conferred under Chapter VII of these regulations; 
22[(sa) “institutional investor” means, –  
              a. a qualified  institutional  buyer; or  
              b. a family trust or an intermediary registered with the Board, having a net worth 
of more than five hundred crore rupees, as per the latest audited financial 
statements;] 
(t) “investment management agreement” means an agreement between the trustee and the 
manager which lays down the roles and responsibilities of the manager towards the 
REIT; 
23[(ta) “liquid asset” means cash, 24[units of overnight mutual fund schemes, units of liquid 
mutual fund schemes where credit risk value is at least 25[10] and which falls under the 
                                                 
20 Clause (qb) renumbered as clause (qc) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (R eal Estate Investment 
Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023. 
21 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior 
to its omission, clause (r) read as under :  
““initial offer document” means any documentby which initial offer is made to the public by the REIT;”  
22 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f 11.12.2025. 
23 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment  Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024. 
24 Substituted for “ units of overnig ht or liquid mutual fund schemes” by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.   
25 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 18.04.2026. Prior to its substitution it read as ‘12’.

[Page 9]
9 
 
Class A-I 26[or Classs B-I] in the potential risk class matrix as specified by the Board], 
fixed deposits of scheduled commercial banks, 27[Government Securities, treasury bills, 
repo on Government Securities] and repo on corporate bonds.] 
(u)  “listed REIT” means a REIT whose units are listed on a recognized stock exchange; 
(v) "LLP" means a limited liability par tnership as defined under the Limited Liability 
Partnership Act, 2008;  
(w) “manager” means a company or LLP or body corporate incorporated in India which 
manages assets and investments of the REIT and undertakes operational activities of 
the REIT; 
(x) "net asset value” or "NAV" means the value of the REIT  28[assets reduced by the 
external debt] divided by the number of outstanding units as on a particular date;  
(y) “net worth” in relation to a company or a body corporate shall have  the meaning 
assigned to it under sub-section (57) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
(za) “occupancy certificate” means a completion certificate, or such other certificate, as the 
case may be, issued by the competent authority permitting occupation of any property 
under any law for the time being in force; 
(zb) "offer document" means any document described or issued as an offer document 
including any notice, circular, advertisement or other document inviting offers    
29[through a public issue] for the subscription or purchase of units of  the REIT and 
includes initial offer doc ument, follow-on offer document 30[, letter of offer in case of 
rights issue] and any other document as may be specified by the Board; 
(zc) “parties to the REIT” shall include the  31[sponsor group(s)], 32[inducted] sponsor(s), 
manager, and trustee; 
(zd) “preferential issue” means an issue of units by a listed REIT to any select person or 
group of persons on a private placement basis and does not include an offer of units 
                                                 
26 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 18.04.2026. 
27 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 18.04.2026. Prior to its substitution it read as ‘government securities, treasury bills, repo 
on  government securities’. 
28 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
29 Substituted for “from the public” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
30 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
31 Substituted for “sponsor(s)” by the SEBI  (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
32 Substituted for “re-designated” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 16.06.2020.

[Page 10]
10 
 
made through a public issue, rights issue, bonus issue, qualified institutions placement 
or any other issue as may be specified by the Board; 
33[(ze) “public” means any person other than: 
(i) the related party of the REIT, its sponsor, or manager; or  
(ii) any other person as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that a person specified above, who is also a qualified institutional buyer in an 
offer, shall be considered as “public” for the purpose of these regulations: 
Provided further that the sponsor, sponsor group and manager of the REIT shall not be 
considered as “public” for the purpose of these regulations.] 
 
(zf) “public issue” means an initial offer or follow -on offer or any other issue made to the 
public as may be specified by the Board; 
34[(zg) “qualified institutional buyer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under clause (ss) of 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018]; 
(zh) “qualified institutions placement” means allotment of units by a listed REIT to qualified 
institutional buyers on private placement basis in terms of these regulations; 
(zi) “real estate” or “property” means land and any permanently attached improvements to 
it, whether leasehold or freehold and includes buildings, sheds, garages, fences, fittings, 
fixtures, warehouses, car parks, etc. and any other assets incidental to the ownership of 
real estate but does not include mortgage: 
 Provided that any asset falling under the purview of 'infrastructure' as defined vide 
Notification of Ministry of Finance dated October 07, 2013 including any amendments 
or additions made thereof shall not be considered as 'real estate' or 'property' for the 
                                                 
33 Substituted by the Securities and Ex change Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025. Prior to substitution, it read as “(ze) “public” for the purposes 
of offer and listing of units means any person other than related party of the R EIT or any other person as may be 
specified by the Board: 
Provided that in case any related party to the REIT is a qualified institutional buyer, such person shall be included 
under the term 'public';”. 
34 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f 11.12.2025. Prior to substitution, clause (zg) read as:  
“(zg) “qualified institutional buyer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under clause (zd) of sub-regulation (1) 
of regulation 2 of the SEBI (Issue Of Capital And Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 ”

[Page 11]
11 
 
purpose of these regulations 35[except if investment in the infrastructure asset is m ade 
in compliance with sub-regulation (5B) of regulation 18 of these regulations]; 
 36[Notwithstanding the above, following captured within the abovementioned definition 
of infrastructure shall be considered under “real estate” or “property”,- 
(i) hotels, hospitals and convention centers, forming part of composite real estate 
projects, whether rent generating or income generating; 
(ii) common infrastructure" for composite real estate projects, industrial parks and 
SEZ;] 
(zj) 37[“real estate assets” means properties held by REIT, on a freehold or leasehold basis, 
whether directly or through a holdco and/or a special purpose vehicle]; 
(zk) “recognised stock exchange” means any stock exchange which is recognised under 
section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); 
(zl) 38[(***]  
 (zm) 39[ “REIT” or “Real Estate Investment Trust” means a person that pools rupees fifty 
crores or more for the purpose of issuing units to at least two hundred investors so as to 
acquire and manage real estate asset(s) or property(ies), that would entitle such 
investors to receive the income generated therefrom without giving them the day -to-
day control over the management and operation of such real estate asset(s) or 
property(ies). 
Explanation 1. – For the purpose of these regulations, a REIT or Real Estate Investment 
Trust shall include an SM REIT under Chapter VIB of these regulations. 
Explanation 2. – For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that for the purpose of 
these regulations, any company which acquires and manages real estate asset(s) or 
property(ies) and  offers or issues securities to the investors, shall not be construed as a 
REIT or Real Estate Investment Trust;]  
                                                 
35 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
36 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
37 Substituted by the Secur ities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. Prior to the substitution, the definition read as follows:  
““real estate assets” means properties owned by REIT whether directly or through a special purpose vehicle” 
38 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
16.06.2020. Prior to its omission, sub-clause (zl) read as under : 
“ (zl) "re-designated sponsor" means any person who has assumed  the responsibility of the sponsor as provided 
under regulation 11 from the person as designated under clause (zt) of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation or from 
any re-designated sponsor thereafter;” 
39 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 08.03.2024. Prior to substitution, the definition read as follows: 
“REIT” or "Real Estate Investment Trust" shall mean a trust registered as such under these regulations;

[Page 12]
12 
 
(zn) 40[“REIT assets” means real estate assets and any other assets held by the REIT, on a 
freehold or leasehold basis, whether di rectly or through a holdco and/or a special 
purpose vehicle.”]; 
(zo) 41[“related party” shall be defined under the Companies Act, 2013 or under the 
applicable accounting standards and shall also include:] 
(i) parties to the REIT; 
(ii) 42[***] 
(iii) 43[***] 44[promoters] 45[***], directors and partners of the persons in clause (i) 
46[***]; 
(zp) "rent generating property" means property which has been leased or rented out in 
accordance with an agreement entered into for the purpose; 
(zq) “rights issue” means an offer of units by a listed REIT to the unit holders of the REIT 
as on the record date fixed for the said purpose; 
(zr) “right-of-first-refusal” or "ROFR" of a REIT means the right given to the REIT by a 
person to enter into a transaction with it before the person is enti tled to enter that 
transaction with any other party; 
47[(zra) “Self -Sponsored Manager” means the Manager of a REIT who has dual 
responsibilities of both the Manager as well as the sponsor;] 
48[49[(zrb)] “Senior Management” means officers or personnel of the Manager who are 
members of its core management team excluding the Board of Directors and shall also 
                                                 
40 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. Prior to the substitution, the definition read as follows:  
““REIT assets” means real estate assets and any other as sets owned by the REIT whether directly or through a 
[holdco and /or] special purpose vehicle”  
41 Substituted for ““related party to the REIT” shall include:” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
42 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior 
to its omission, sub-clause (ii) read as under :  
“any unit holder holding, directly or indirectly, more than twenty per cent. of the units of the R EIT;” 
43 Omitted “associates,”, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016.  
44 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
45The word “sponsors” was omitted ibid. 
46 Omitted“and (ii)” , by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016.  
47 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (S econd Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023. 
48 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 01.04.2023. 
49 Clause (zra) renumbered as clause (zrb) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 
Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023.

[Page 13]
13 
 
comprise all members of the management one level below the Chief Executive Officer 
or Managing Direct or, Whole Time Director, manager (including Chief Executive 
Officer or manager, in case they are not part of the Board of Directors) and shall 
specifically include the Compliance Officer and Chief Financial Officer;] 
(zs) "special purpose vehicle" or "SPV" means any company or LLP, - 
(i) in which 50[either the REIT or the holdco ] holds or proposes to hold 51[***] not 
less than fifty 52[53[***]] per cent. of the equity share capital or interest;  
(ii) which holds not less than eighty per cent. of its assets directly in properties and 
does not invest in other special purpose vehicles; and 
(iii) which is not  engaged in any  activity other than holding and developing property 
and any other activity incidental to such holding or development; 
(zt) “sponsor” means any person(s) who s et(s) up the REIT and designated as such at the 
time of application made to the Board 54[and shall include an inducted sponsor]; 
 55[“(zta) “sponsor group” – includes: 
(i) the sponsor(s);  
(ii) in case the sponsor is a body corporate: 
a. entities or person(s) which are controlled by such body corporate;  
b. entities or person(s) who control such body corporate;  
c. entities or person(s) which are controlled by person(s) as referred at clause b. 
(iii) in case sponsor is an individual: 
a. an immediate relative of such individual (i.e., any spouse of that person, or 
any parent, brother, sister or child of the person or of the spouse); and  
b. entities or person(s) which are controlled by such individual;] 
56[(ztb) “strategic investor” means, -  
                                                 
50 Substituted for “the REIT” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
51 Words “controlling interest and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
52 Word “one” omitted ibid. 
53 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
54 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
16.06.2020 
55 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
56 Substituted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) ( Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 
11.12.2025. Prior to the substitution, clause (ztb) [as inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017] read as:  
“(ztb) “strategic investor” means, -  
a. an infrastructure finance company registered with the Reserve Bank of India as a Non -Banking 
Financial       
Company;

[Page 14]
14 
 
                 a. an institutional investor; or 
                 b. a foreign portfolio investor not covered under sub-clause (a); or  
                c. a middle layer, upper layer and top layer Non -Banking Finance Compa ny    
registered with the Reserve Bank of India; or 
 d.   such entities as the Board may specify from time to time,  
who invest, either jointly or severally, not less than five per cent. of the total offer 
size of the  REIT or such amount as may be specifie d by the Board from time to 
time, subject to compliance with the applicable provisions, if any, of the Foreign 
Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules or regulations or guidelines made 
thereunder: 
Provided that if the entity is regulated by any financial sector regulator, the Board 
shall consult such financial sector regulator prior to specifying the entity as a 
strategic investor  under sub -clause (d) of clause (ztb) of sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 2;] 
(zu) "transferable development rights" o r "TDR" shall mean development rights issued by 
the competent authority under relevant laws in lieu of the area relinquished or surrendered 
by the owner or developer or by way of declared incentives by the government or authority; 
(zv) “trustee” means a person who holds the REIT assets in trust for the benefit of the unit 
holders, in accordance with these regulations; 
(zw) “under-construction property” means a property of which construction is not complete 
and occupancy certificate has not been received;  
(zx) “unit” means beneficial interest of the REIT; 
(zy) “unit holder” means any person who owns units of the REIT; 
57[“(zz) “valuer” means any person who is a “registered valuer” under section 247 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 or as specified by the Board from time to time.] 
                                                 
         b. a Scheduled Commercial Bank;  
          c. a multilateral  [and/or] bilateral development financial institution;  
          d. a systemically important Non-Banking Financial Company registered with the Reserve Bank of India;  
          e. a foreign portfolio investor, 
          f. an insurance company registered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India; 
          g.  a mutual fund. 
who invest, either jointly or severally, not less than five per cent. of the total offer size of the REIT or such amount 
as may be specified by the Board from time to time, subject to the compliance with the applicable provisions, if 
any, of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules or regulations or guidelines made 
thereunder.” 
57 Substituted by the SEBI (Real Estate (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 201 7, w.e.f. 
15.12.2017. Prior to the substitution, the definition of the term “valuer” read as follows:

[Page 15]
15 
 
  
 
(zza) 58[***] 
(zzb) "value of the REIT assets" means aggregate value of all the assets under the REIT as 
assessed by the valuer. 
 
(2) The words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations , but defined in the 
Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, (42 of 1956), the Companies Act, 2013 
(18 of 2013), or any rules or regulations made thereunder , shall have the same meanings 
respectively assigned to them in those Acts, rules or regulations, or any statutory modification 
or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be. 
 
                                                 
“(zz) “valuer” means any person who is a "registered valuer" under section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013 
57[or as defined hereunder] and who has 57[/have] been appointed by the manager to undertake 57[both 
financial and technical] valuation of the REIT assets: 
 57[“(a) a valuer in respect of financial valuation, means,- 
(i) a chartered accountant, company secretary or cost accountant who is in whole-time practice, 
or retired member of Indian Corporate Law Service or any person holding equivalent 
Indian or foreign qualification as the Ministry of Corporate Affairs may recognize by an 
order: 
Provided that such foreign qualification is acquired by Indian citizen. 
(ii) a Merchant Banker registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India, and who 
has in his employment person(s) having qualifications prescribed under (i) above to carry 
out valuation by such qualified persons; 
(b) a valuer in respect of technic al asset valuation, means members of the following institutions for 
specific asset categories,- 
(i) Institution of Valuers; 
(ii) Institution of Surveyors (Valuation Branch); 
(iii) Institution of Government Approved Valuers; 
(iv) Practicing Valuers Association of India; 
(v) Centre for Valuation Studies, Research and Training; 
(vi) Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, UK; 
(vii) American Society of Appraisers, United States; 
(viii) Appraisal Institute, United States; 
(ix) Institute of Engineers; 
(x) Council of Architecture or the Indian Institute of Architects: 
 
Provided that, the persons referred to in sub -sub-clause (i) and qualified person referred 
to in sub -sub-clause (ii) of sub -clause (a) above, shall have not less than five years 
continuous experience after acquiring membership of respective institutions: 
Provided further that, the persons referred to in sub -sub-clauses (i) to (x) of sub -clause 
(b) above, shall have a minimum working experience of five years in relevant areas of 
valuation practice and in relation to relevant asset value and categories; and be citizens 
of India;” 
58 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior 
to its omission, clause (zza) read as under :  
“"value of the REIT" means value of the REIT as certified by the auditor based on the value of REIT assets held 
directly or through the SPV excluding any debt or liabilities thereof;”

[Page 16]
16 
 
CHAPTER II 
REGISTRATION OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS 
Registration of real estate investment trusts. 
3. (1) No person shall act as a REIT unless it is registered with the Board under these 
regulations. 
(2) An application for grant of certificate of registration as REIT shall be made, by the sponsor 
59[on behalf of the trust] in Form A as specified in the Schedule I to these regulations and shall 
be accompanied by a non -refundable application fee of such amount and shall be payable in 
the manner as specified in Schedule II to these regulations. 
(3) The Board may, in order to protect the interests of inv estors, appoint any person to take 
charge of records, documents of the 60[REIT] and for this purpose, also determine the terms 
and conditions of such an appointment.  
(4) The Board shall take into account requirements as specified in these regulations for the 
purpose of considering grant of registration.  
 
 
Eligibility criteria.  
4. (1) For the purpose of the grant of certificate to 61[the trust], the Board shall consider all 
matters relevant to the activities as a REIT. 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the Board shall consider the 
following, namely, - 
(a) the applicant is 62[the sponsor on behalf of]  trust and the instrument of trust is in the 
form of a deed duly registered in India under the provisions of the Registration Act, 
1908; 
(b) the trust deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of REIT in accordance with 
these regulations and includes responsibilities of the Trustee in accordance with 
regulation 9; 
(c) persons have been designated as sponsor(s), manager and trustee u nder these 
regulations and all such persons are separate entities; 
                                                 
59 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
60 Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
61 Substituted ibid for “an applicant”. 
62 Substituted for “ a” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016

[Page 17]
17 
 
(d) with regard to sponsor(s),-  
(i) 63[each sponsor shall hold or propose] to hold not less than five per cent. of the 
number of units of the REIT on post-initial offer basis; 
64[(ia) each sponsor and sponsor group shall be clearly identified in the 
application of registration to the Board and in the offer document/placement 
memorandum, as applicable: 
Provided that, for each sponsor group not less than one person shall be 
identified as a sponsor;] 
65[Provided further that, of the entities categorized as sponsor group, only  the 
following entities may be considered:  
a) a person or entity who is directly or indirectly holding an interest 
or shareholding in any of the assets or SPVs or holdcos proposed 
to be transferred to the REIT. 
b) a person or entity who is directly or indirectly holding units of 
the REIT on post-issue basis. 
c) a person or entity whose experience is being utilized by the 
sponsor for meeting with the eligibility conditions requir ed 
under sub -clause (iii) of clause (d) of sub -regulation (2) of 
regulation 4 of these regulations.] 
(ii) the sponsor(s), on a collective basis, have a net worth of not less than  one 
hundred crore rupees: 
Provided that each sponsor has a net worth of not less than twenty crore rupees; 
and  
(iii) the sponsor or its associate(s) has not less than five years experience in 
development of real estate or fund management in the real estate industry:  
Provided that where the sponsor is a developer, at least two projects of the 
sponsor have been completed; 
(e) with regard to the manager,- 
                                                 
63 Substituted for “there are not more than three sponsors  each holding or proposing”  by the SEBI (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016   
64 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
65 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 18]
18 
 
(i) the manager has a net worth of not less than ten crore rupees if the manager is 
a body corporate or a company or net tangible assets of value not less than ten 
crore rupees in case the manager is a LLP;  
(ii) the manager or its associate has not less than five years experience in fund 
management or advisory services or property management in the real estate 
industry or in development of real estate;  
(iii)the manager has not less than two key personnel who each have not less than 
five years experience in fund management  or advisory services  or property 
management in the real estate industry or in development of real estate;  
(iv) the manager has not less than half, of its directors in the case of a company or 
of members of the governing Board in case of an LLP, as independent and not 
directors or members of the governing Board 66[of the manager] of another 
REIT67[:]  
68[Provided that if by a vacancy in the office of an independent director of the 
manager, the manager becomes non -compliant with the requirement, such 
vacancy shall be filled by the manager as follows- 
A. if such vacancy arises due to expiry of the term of office of the independent 
director, then the resulting vacancy shall be filled not later than  the date such 
office is vacated; or 
B. if such vacancy arises due to any other reason, then the resulting vacancy 
shall be filled at  the earliest and not later than three months from the date of 
such vacancy.] 
(v) the manager has entered into an investment management agreement with the 
trustee which provides for the responsibilities of the manager in accordance 
with regulation 10; 
(f) with regard to the trustee,-  
(i) the trustee is registered with the Board under SEBI(Debe nture Trustees) 
Regulations, 1993 and is not an associate of the sponsor(s) or manager; and 
                                                 
66 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
67 Substituted for the symbol “;” and the word “and” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
68 Inserted, ibid.

[Page 19]
19 
 
(ii) the trustee has such wherewithal with respect to infrastructure, personnel, etc. 
to the satisfaction of the Board and in accordance with circulars or guidelines 
as may be specified by the Board; 
(g) no unit holder of the REIT enjoys 69[superior] voting or any other rights over another 
unit holder 70[and there are no multiple classes of units of REIT:] 
71[Notwithstanding the above, subordinate units may be issued only to the  sponsors 
and its associates, where such subordinate units shall carry only inferior voting or any 
other rights compared to other units72[:]] 
73[Provided that unitholders holding not less than ten percent of the total outstanding 
units of the REIT, either individually or collectively, shall be entitled to nominate one 
director on the board of directors of the Manager, in the manner as may be specified 
by the Board:  
Provided further that the director so nominated shall recuse from voting on any 
transaction in which such nominee director or associate of such nominee director or 
the unitholder who nominated  such nominee director or the associate of such 
unitholder is a party:  
Provided further that any unitholder holding not less than ten percent of the total 
outstanding units of the REIT shall comply with the stewardship code specified in 
Schedule IX of these regulations.] 
(h) 74[***] 
(i) the applicant has clearly described at the time of application for registration, details 
pertaining to proposed activities of the REIT;  
(j) the 75[REIT] and parties to the REIT are fit and proper persons based on the criteria as 
specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008; 
                                                 
69 Substituted for “preferential” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016,  
w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
70 Substituted for “;” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
71 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
72 Substituted for the symbol “;” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023. 
73 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (S econd Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023. 
74 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior 
to its omission, clause (h) read as under :  
“there are no multiple classes of units of REIT;” 
75 Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 20]
20 
 
(k) whether any previous application for grant of certificate by the 76[REIT or the parties 
to the REIT or their directors/members of governing board] has been rejected by the 
Board;  
(l) whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory 
authority against the 77[REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/members of 
governing board] under any Act or the regulations or cir culars or guidelines made 
thereunder. 
 
Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation. 
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to  furnish any such information or clarification as 
may be required by it for the purpose of processing of the application. 
(2) The Board, if it so desires, may require the applicant or any authorized representative to 
appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of certificate. 
 
Procedure for grant of certificate. 
6. (1) The Board on being satisfied that the 78[trust] fulfils, the requirements specified in 
regulation 4 shall send intimation to the [trust] and on receipt of the payment of registration 
fees as specified in Schedule II, grant certificate of registration in Form B under Schedule I.  
(2) The registration may be granted with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate by the 
Board. 
 
Conditions of certificate. 
7. The certificate granted under regulation 6 shall, inter-alia, be subject to the following 
conditions, namely,-  
(a) the REIT shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations;  
(b) the REIT shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars 
previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material 
particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted; 
                                                 
76 Substituted for the words “applicant or any related party” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investme nt Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017.  
77 Substituted ibid.  
78 Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 21]
21 
 
(c) the REIT and parties to the REIT shall satisfy with the conditions specified in regulation 
4 at all times; 
(d) the REIT and parties to the REIT shall comply, at all times, with the Code of conduct 
as specified in the Schedule VI, wherever applicable. 
 
79[ ***] 
 
Procedure where registration is refused. 
8. (1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion 
that a certificate should not be granted to the 80[trust], it may reject the application after giving 
the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant 
within thirty days of such decision. 
 
 
CHAPTER III 
RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARTIES TO THE REIT, VALUER AND 
AUDITOR 
Rights and responsibilities of trustee. 
9. (1) The trustee shall hold the REIT assets in trust for the benefit of the unit holders in 
accordance with the trust deed and these regulations.  
(2) The Trustee shall enter into an investment management agreement with the manager on 
behalf of the REIT. 
                                                 
79 Regulation 7A omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second  
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023. Before the omission, the regulation read as under:  
 
“De-classification of the status of sponsor 
7A (1) De-classification of the status of a sponsor(s) of a REIT whose units have been listed on the stock 
exchanges for a period of three years shall be permitted upon receipt of an application from the REIT 
and subject to compliance with the following conditions: 
(a) the unit holding of such sponsor and its associates taken together does not exceed 10% of the 
outstanding units of the REIT; 
(b) the manager of the REIT is not an entity controlled by such sponsor or its associates;  
(c) the sponsor or its associates are not fugitive economic offender; 
(d) approval of unit holders has been obtained in accordance with sub-regulation 5 of Regulation 22.” 
80 Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 22]
22 
 
(3) The trustee shall oversee activities of the manager in the interest of the unit holders, ensure 
that the manager complies with regulation 10 and shall obtain compliance certificate from the 
manager in the form as may be specified on a quarterly basis.  
(4) The trustee shall ensure that the manager complies with the reporting and disclosures 
requirements in these regulations and in case of any delay or discrepancy, require the manager 
to rectify the same on an urgent basis. 
(5) The trustee shall review the transactions carried out between the manager and its associates 
and where the manager has advised that there may be a conflict of interest, shall obtain 
confirmation from a practising chartered accountant 81[or a valuer, as applicabl e,] that such 
transaction is on arm's length basis. 
(6) The trustee shall periodically review the status of unit holders' complaints and their 
redressal undertaken by the manager. 
(7) The trustee shall make distributions in accordance with sub -regulation (16) of regulation 
18 and ensure that the manager makes timely declaration of distributions to the unit holders.  
(8) The trustee may require the manager to set up such systems and submit such reports to the 
trustees, as may be necessary for effective monit oring of the performance and functioning of 
the REIT. 
(9) The trustee shall ensure that subscription amount is kept in a separate bank account in name 
of the REIT and is only utilized for adjustment against allotment of units or refund of money 
to the applicants till the time such units are listed.  
(10) The trustee shall ensure that the remuneration of the valuer is not linked to or based on the 
value of the asset being valued. 
(11) The trustee shall  ensure that the manager convenes meetings of the unit ho lders in 
accordance with these regulations and oversee the voting by unitholders and d eclare outcome 
of the voting. 
(12) The trustee may take up with the Board or with the designated stock exchange, any matter 
which has been approved in an annual meeting  or special meeting, if the matter requires such 
action. 
(13) In case of any change in manager due to removal or otherwise,- 
(a) prior to such change, the trustee shall obtain approval from unit holders in 
accordance with regulation 22 and approval from the Board; 
                                                 
81 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 23]
23 
 
(b) the trustee shall appoint the new manager within three months from the date of 
termination of the earlier investment management agreement; 
(c) the previous manager shall continue to act as such at the discretion of trustee till 
such time as new manager is appointed; 
(d) the trustee shall ensure that the new manager shall stand substituted as a party in 
all the documents to which the earlier manager was a party;  
(e) the trustee shall ensure that the earlier manager continues to be liable for all its acts 
of omissions and commissions notwithstanding such termination. 
(14) The trustee shall obtain prior approval from the unit holders in accordance with regulation 
22 and from the Board in case of change in control of the manager. 
(15) The trustee 82[of the REIT” shall be substituted] shall not invest in units of the REIT in 
which it is designated as the trustee. 
(16) The trustee shall ensure that the activity of the REIT is being operated in accordance with 
the provisions of the trust deed, these regulations, the offer document and if any discrepancy is 
noticed, shall inform the same to the Board immediately in writing. 
(17) The trustee shall provide to the Board and to the designated stock exchange such 
information as may be sought by the Board or by the designated stock exchange pertaining to 
the activity of the REIT. 
(18) The trustee shall immediately inform to the Board in case any act which is detrimental to 
the interest of the unit holders is noted.  
83[(19) The trustee shall, - 
(a) comply with the core principles defining its roles and responsibilities which shall  
encompass transparency, accountability, due diligence and compliance with these  
regulations; and 
(b) act impartially in their fiduciary capacity, prioritize protection of the interests of  
unitholders, ensure effective management oversight over the manager and the REIT 
and maintain high standards of governance of the manager and the REIT. 
Explanation: ─ For the purpose of this sub-regulation,- 
(a) An illustrative list of roles and responsibilities to gui de the trustee is specified in 
Schedule XII; and 
                                                 
82 Substituted for “and its associates” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
83 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 24]
24 
 
(b) The trustee shall adopt additional measures or responsibilities crucial for meeting 
the overarching principles of their role and responsibilities: 
Provided that this sub -regulation shall come into force on one-hundred eightieth day 
from the date of publication of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 in the Official Gazette. 
(20) For the purpose of ensuring compliance with sub-regulation (19), the trustee may engage 
external consultants during the period of eighteen months from the date of publication of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 in the Official Gazette.] 
Rights and responsibilities of manager. 
10. (1) The manager shall make the investment decisions with respect to the underlying assets 
of the REIT including any further investment or divestment of the assets. 
(2) The manager shall ensure that the real estate assets of the REIT or 84[holdco and/or] SPV 
have proper legal and marketable titles and that all the material contracts including rental  or 
lease agreements entered into on behalf of REITs  or 85[holdco and/or] SPV are legal, valid, 
binding and enforceable by and on behalf of the REIT or 86[holdco and/or] SPV. 
(3) The manager shall ensure that the investments made by the REIT are in accordance with 
the investment conditions specified in regulation 18 and in accordance with the investment 
strategy of the REIT.  
(4) The manager shall undertake management of the REIT assets including lease management, 
maintenance of the assets, regular structural audits, regular safety audits, etc. either directly or 
through the appointment and supervision of appropriate agents.  
(5) The manager, in consultation with trustee, shall appoint the valuer(s), auditor, registrar and 
transfer agent, merchant banker, custodian and any other intermediary  or service provider or 
agent for managing the assets of the REIT or for offer and listin g of its units or any other 
activity pertaining to the REIT in a timely manner and in accordance with these regulations. 
87[(6) Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the manager of the REIT shall appoint an 
individual or a firm as the auditor, who shall hold office from the date of conclusion of the 
                                                 
84 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
85 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
86 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
87 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 14.02.2023. Prior to substitution it read as follows: 
“(6) The manager shall appoint an auditor for a period of not more than five consecutive years: 
Provided that the auditor, not being an individual, may be reappointed for a period of another five consecutive 
years, subject to approval of unit-holders in the annual meeting.”

[Page 25]
25 
 
annual meeting in which the auditor has been appointed till the date of conclusion of the sixth 
annual meeting of the unitholders in accordance with the procedure for selection of auditors, 
as may be specified by the Board.]  
88[(6A) The manager of the REIT shall not appoint or re-appoint— 
(a) an individual as the auditor for more than one term of five consecutive years; and 
(b) an audit firm as the auditor for more than two terms of five consecutive years: 
Provided that— 
(i) the individual auditor who has completed the term under clause (a) shall not be eligible 
for re-appointment as the auditor in the same REIT for a period of five years from the 
date of completion of the term; 
(ii) the audit firm that has completed its term under clause (b), shall not be eligible for 
reappointment as the auditor in the same REIT for a period of five years from the date 
of completion of its term.] 
(7) The manager shall arrange for adequate insurance coverage for the real estate assets of the 
REIT: 
Provided that in case of assets held by 89[holdco and/or] SPV, the manager shall ensure that 
real estate assets are adequately insured. 
(8) If the REIT invests in under-construction properties as per these regulations, the manager-  
(a) may undertake the development of the properties, either directly or through the 
SPV, or appoint any other person for development of such properties; and 
(b) shall oversee the progress of development, approval status and other aspects of the 
properties upto its completion. 
(9) The manager shall ensure that it has adequate infrastructure and sufficient key personnel 
with adequate experience and qualification to undertake management of the REIT at all times.  
(10) The manager 90[and the merchant banker(s) shall] shall be responsible for,- 
(a) filing 91[***] offer document with the Board and the designated stock exchange 
within the specified time period; 
                                                 
88 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 14.02.2023. 
89 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
90 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
91 Omitted “the draft and final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016.

[Page 26]
26 
 
(b) obtaining in-principle approval 92[and final listing and trading approvals] from the 
designated stock exchange; 
(c) dealing with all matters relating to issue and listing of the units of the REIT as 
specified in Chapter IV. 
(11) The manager 93[and the merchant banker(s),] shall ensure that disclosures made in the 
offer document or any other document as may be specified by the Board contain material, true, 
correct and adequate disclosures and are in accordance with these regulations and guidelines 
or circulars issued thereunder. 
(12) The manager shall declare distributions to the unit holders in accordance with the sub -
regulation (16) of regulation 18. 
(13) The manager shall ensure adequate and timely redressal of all unit holders' grievances 
pertaining to activities of the REIT. 
(14) The manager shall ensure that the disclosures to the unit holders, Board, trustees and 
designated stock exchange are adequate, timely and in accordance with these regulations and 
guidelines or circulars issued thereunder. 
(15) The manager shall provide to the Board and to the designated stock exchanges any such 
information as may be sought by the Board or the designated stock exchange pertaining to the 
activities of the REIT. 
(16) The manager shall ensure that a dequate controls are in place to ensure segregation of its 
activity as manager of the REIT from its other activities. 
(17) The manager or its associates shall not obtain any commission or rebate or any other 
remuneration, by whatever name called, arising out of transactions pertaining to the REIT other 
than as specified in the offer document or any other document as may be specified by the Board 
for the purpose of issue of units. 
(18) The manager shall submit to the trustee,- 
(a) quarterly reports on the activi ties of the REIT including receipts for all funds 
received by it and for all payments made, position on compliance with these 
regulations, specifically including compliance with regulations 18,19 and 20, 
performance report, status of development of under-construction properties, within 
                                                 
92 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
93 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 27]
27 
 
94[such time as may be specified by the Board for submission of quarterly financial 
results];  
(b) valuation reports 95[***] within fifteen days of the receipt of the valuation report 
from the valuer96[:] 
97[Provided that the valuation reports specified under sub -regulation (4) and sub -
regulation (5) of regulation 21 of these regulations shall be submitted to the trustee 
simultaneously at the time of submission of such reports to the stock exchange(s) 
under regulation 21.] 
(c) decision to acquire or sell or develop any property or expand existing completed 
properties along with rationale for the same; 
(d) details of any action which requires approval from the unit holders as required 
under the regulations; 
(e) details of any other mater ial fact including change of its directors, any legal 
proceedings that may have a significant bearing on the activity of the REIT within 
seven working days of such action. 
(19) In case the manager fails to timely submit to the trustee information or reports as specified 
under sub-regulation (18) of this regulation or sub -regulation (8) of regulation 9, the trustee 
shall intimate the same to the Board and the Board may take action, as it deems fit. 
(20) The manager shall coordinate with trustee, as may be necessary, with respect to operations 
of the REIT. 
(21) The manager shall ensure that the valuation of the REIT assets is done by the valuer(s) in 
accordance with regulation 21. 
(22) The manager shall ensure that computation of NAV of the REIT is based on the valuation 
done by the valuer and is declared no later than fifteen days from the date of valuation 98[ to 
the stock exchange(s)] and such computation shall be done and declared not less than once 
every six months.  
                                                 
94 Substituted for the words “within thirty days of end of such quarter ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025  w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
95 The words “as required under these regulations” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real 
Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
96 Substituted for “;” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
97 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
98 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 28]
28 
 
(23) The manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the REIT by the auditor is done not 
less than 99[ once in a year] and such report is submitted to the designated stock exchange 
within 100[sixty] days of end of such financial year ending March 31st 101[***]. 
(24) The manager may appoint a custodian in order to provide such custodial services as may 
be authorised by the trustees and oversee activities of such custodian. 
(25) The manager shall place, before its board of directors in the case of a company or the 
governing board in case of an LLP, a report on activity and performance of the REIT every 
three months. 
(26) The manager shall designate an employee  or director as the compliance officer for 
monitoring of compliance with these regulations and circulars issued thereunder and intimating 
the Board in case of any violation. 
(27) The manager shall convene meetings of the unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 
and maintain records pertaining to the meetings in accordance with regulation 26. 
(28) The manager shall ensure the compliance with laws, as may be applicable, of the State or 
the local body with respect to the activity of the REIT including local building laws. 
(29) The manager shall ensure that all activities  of management of assets of the REIT and 
activities of the intermediaries or agents or service providers appointed by the manager are in 
accordance with these regulations and circulars issued thereunder. 
102[(30) The manager may at its discretion, offer unit  based employee benefit scheme for its 
employees based on the units of the REIT subject to compliance with the provisions of Chapter 
IVA of these regulations.] 
103[(31) The manager shall ensure compliance with the Investor Charter as may be specified by 
the Board from time to time.] 
 
Rights and responsibilities of sponsor(s)104[and sponsor group(s)]. 
                                                 
99 Substituted for “twice annually”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
100 Substituted for “forty five” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
101 Omitted “and half-year ending on September 30th”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.  
102 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024. 
103 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Charter) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 10-02-2025. 
104 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 29]
29 
 
11. (1) The sponsor(s) 105[and sponsor group(s)] shall set up the REIT and appoint the trustee 
of the REIT. 
(2) The sponsor(s) 106[and sponsor group(s)] shall transfer or undertake to transfer, subject to a 
binding agreement and adequate disclosures in the initial offer 107[document], 108[their] entire 
shareholding or interest 109[and rights] in the 110[holdco and/or] SPV or entire ownership of the 
real estate assets to the REIT prior to allotment of units of the REIT to the applicants: 
Provided that this shall not apply to the extent of any mandatory holding of shares  or interest 
111[and rights] in the 112[holdco and/or] SPV by the sponsor(s) 113[and sponsor group(s)] as 
required 114[under] any Act  or regulations or circulars or guidelines of government  or 
regulatory authority as specified from time to time. 
(3) 115[The sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) shall collectively hold not less than – 
(i) fifteen percent of the total units of the REIT, for three years from the date of listing  
of units in the initial offer:  
Provided that any holding by the sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) exceeding fifteen 
percent shall be held for a period of not less than  one year from the date of listing of 
units issued in the initial offer; 
(ii) five percent of the total units of the REIT, from the beginning of fourth year and till the 
end of fifth year from the date of listing of the units issued in the initial offer; 
                                                 
105 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
106 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
107 Word ‘focument’ corrected to read as ‘document’ by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
108 Substituted for “its” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
109 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
110 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
111 Inserted by the Secur ities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
112 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
113 Inserted by the Securities and Exc hange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
114 Inserted ibid. 
115 Sub-regulation 3 substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023. Before the substitution, the provisions read as under: 
 
“(3) The sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) shall collectively hold a minimum of fifteen percent of the total 
units of the REIT for a period of at least three years from the date of listing of such units pursuant to 
initial offer on a post-issue basis: 
 
Provided that any holding of the sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) exceeding the minimum holding, shall 
be held for a period of atleast one year from the date of listing of such units.”

[Page 30]
30 
 
(iii) three percent of the total units of the REIT, from the beginning of sixth year and till the 
end of tenth year from the date of listing of the units issued in the initial offer; 
(iv) two percent of the total units of the REIT, from the beginning of eleventh year and t ill 
the end of twentieth year from the date of listing of the units issued in the initial offer; 
(v) one percent of the total units of the REIT, after completion of the twentieth year from 
the date of listing of units issued in the initial offer: 
 Provided that the maximum value of the units to be held by the sponsor(s) and sponsor 
group(s) for compliance with clauses (ii) to (v) of this sub -regulation shall not exceed 
five hundred crore rupees or such other value as may be decided by the Board from 
time to time and such valuation shall be based on the latest available net asset value of 
the REIT: 
 Provided further that an assessment of compliance of requirements under clauses (ii) 
to (v) of this sub-regulation shall be done at the time of each fresh issuance of units and 
at the beginning of change in threshold of the percentage for minimum unitholding 
requirement as specified in this sub-regulation: 
 
 Provided further that for REITs that have already issued units pursuant to an initial offer as on 
the date of co ming into effect of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2023, the provisions contained in clauses (i) to (v) of this sub -regulation shall be appli cable 
only for the additional units issued by the REIT after such date and the units that are locked in 
at the time of initial offer shall continue to be locked in till the completion of three years from 
the date of listing of units in such initial offer.] 
 
116[(3A) The units required to be held in terms of sub-regulation (3) shall be locked in and shall 
not be encumbered:  
Notwithstanding the above, any encumbrance created on units held to comply with the 
minimum unit holding requirement applicable before th e date of coming into effect of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, may continue if the encumbrance exist on such date.] 
                                                 
116 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023.

[Page 31]
31 
 
117[Provided that locked-in units held by a sponsor or its sponsor group entities  may be 
transferred only amongst such sponsor or its sponsor group entities  subject to the condition 
that lock-in on such units shall continue for the remaining period with the transferee and such 
transferee shall not be eligible to transfer such units till the time the lock-in period has expired. 
Explanation: ─ In case of a REIT with multiple sponsors, the locked in units held by a sponsor  
or its sponsor group entities can be transferred only amongst such sponsor or its own sponsor 
group entities and shall not be transferred to any other sponsor or their sponsor group entities: 
Provided further that i n case of change in sponsor, locked-in units held by the outgoing 
sponsor or its sponsor group entities may be transferred to the incoming sponsor or its sponsor 
group entities subject to the condition that the incoming sponsor or its group entities shall 
meet the minimum unitholding requirements after the transfer: 
Provided further that in case of conversion to self-sponsored manager, locked-in units held by 
the outgoing sponsor or its sponsor group entities may be transferred to the self -sponsored 
manager or its shareholders or group entities  of self -sponsored manager subject to the  
condition that the self -sponsored manager or its shareholders or group entities of self -
sponsored manager shall meet the minimum unitholding requirements after the transfer.] 
 (4) 118[***] 119[Notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or agreement, t he 
sponsor(s) and the sponsor group(s) shall continue to be liable to the REIT, trustees and unit 
holders for all acts of commission or omission, representation or covenants related to the 
formation of the REIT and the sale or transfer of assets or holdco or SPV to the REIT.] 
                                                 
117 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
118 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
16.06.2020. Prior to its omission, the sub-regulation read as under : 
“(4) If the sponsor(s) [and sponsor group(s)] propose(s) to sell its units below the limit specified in clauses (b) or 
(c) of sub-regulation (3) of this regulation- 
(a) such units shall be sold only after a period of three years from the date of listing of the units;  
(b) prior to sale of such units, the sponsor(s)  [ and sponsor group(s)] shall arrange for another person(s) or 
entity(ies) to act as the re-designated sponsor(s) where the re-designated sponsor shall satisfy the eligibility norms 
for the sponsor as specified under [regulation 4]:  
Provided that such units may also be sold to an existing sponsor; 
(c) The [***]proposed redesignated sponsor shall obtain approval from the unit holders or  provide option to exit 
to the unit holders in accordance with guidelines as may be specified:  
Provided that this clause shall not apply where the units are proposed to be sold to an existing sponsor [or member 
of sponsor group].” 
119 Inserted by the Securit ies and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 09.11.2022.

[Page 32]
32 
 
 (5) 120[***]  
 
Rights and responsibilities of the valuer. 
12. The valuer(s) shall comply with the following conditions at all times- 
(a) The valuer(s) shall ensure that the valuation of the REIT assets is impartial, true and 
fair and is in accordance with regulation 21; 
(b) The valuer(s)  shall ensure adequate and robust internal controls to ensure the 
integrity of its valuation reports; 
(c) The valuer(s)  shall ensure that it has sufficient key personnel with adequate 
experience and qualification to perform property valuations at all times;  
(d) The valuer(s) shall ensure that it has sufficient financial resources to enable it to 
conduct its business effectively and meet its liabilities; 
(e) The valuer(s) and any of its employees involved in valuing of the assets of the REIT, 
shall not,- 
(i) invest in units of the REIT or in the assets being valued; and  
(ii) sell the assets or units of REITs held prior to being appointed as the valuer,  
till the time such person is designated as valuer of such REIT and not less than six 
months after ceasing to be valuer of the REIT; 
(f) The valuer(s) shall conduct the valuation of the REIT assets with transparency and 
fairness and shall render, at all times, high standards of service, exercise due 
diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent professional judgment; 
(g) The valuer(s)  shall act with independence, objectivity and impartiality in 
performing the valuation; 
(h) The valuer(s) shall discharge its duties towards the REIT in an efficient and 
competent manner, utilizing his knowledge, skills and experience in best possible 
way to complete given assignment; 
(i) The valuer(s) shall not accept remuneration, in any form, for performing a valuation 
of the REIT assets from any person other than the REIT or its authorized 
representative; 
                                                 
120 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
16.06.2020. Prior to its omission, the sub-regulation read as under : 
“(5) If re -designated sponsor(s) propose(s) to sell its units to any another person, conditions specified under 
clauses (b), and (c) of sub-regulation (4) shall be complied with.”

[Page 33]
33 
 
(j) The valuer(s) shall before accepting any assignment, 121[from any related party to 
the REIT, shall] disclose to the REIT any direct or indirect consideration which the 
valuer may have in respect of such assignment;  
(k) The valuer shall disclose to the trustee, any pending business transactions, contracts 
under negotiation and other arrangements with the manager or any other party 
whom the REIT is contracting with and any other factors that may interfere with 
the valuer’s ability to giv e an independent and professional valuation of the 
property; 
(l) The valuer(s) shall not make false, misleading or exaggerated claims in order to 
secure assignments; 
(m) The valuer(s) shall not provide misleading valuation, either by providing incorrect 
information or by withholding relevant information; 
(n) The valuer(s) shall not accept an assignment that includes reporting of the outcome 
based on predetermined opinions and conclusions required by the REIT; 
(o) The valuer(s) shall, prior to performing a valuation, acquaint itself with all laws or 
regulations relevant to such valuation. 
 
Rights and responsibilities of the auditor. 
13. (1) The auditor shall conduct audit of the accounts of the REIT and prepare the audit report 
based on the accounts examined by him and after  taking into account the relevant accounting 
and auditing standards, as may be specified by the Board. 
(2) The auditor shall, to the best of his information and knowledge, ensure that the accounts 
and financial statements, including profit or loss and cash  flow for the period and such other 
matters as may be specified, give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs. 
(3) The auditor shall have a right of access at all times to the books of accounts and vouchers 
pertaining to activities of the REIT. 
(4) The auditor shall have a right to require such information and explanation pertaining to 
activities of the REIT as he may consider necessary for the performance of his duties as auditor 
from the employees of REIT or parties to the REIT or 122[holdco or] SPV or any other person 
in possession of such information. 
                                                 
121 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
122 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 34]
34 
 
123[(5) The auditor shall undertake a limited review of the audit of all the entities or companies 
whose accounts are to be consolidated with the accounts of the REIT as per the applicable 
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) and any addendum thereto as defined in Rule 2 (1) (a) 
of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, in such manner as may be 
specified by the Board.] 
 
CHAPTER IV 
ISSUE AND LISTING OF UNITS 
Issue and allotment of units. 
14. (1) A REIT shall make an initial offer of its units by way of public issue only. 
(2) No initial offer of units by the REIT shall be made unless,- 
(a) the REIT is registered with the Board under these regulations; 
(b) the value of 124[the REIT assets] is not less than five hundred crore rupees; 
Explanation.- Such value shall mean the value of the specific portion of the holding 
of REIT in the underlying assets or 125[] SPVs; 
126[(ba) the minimum number of unit holders other than sponsor(s), its related 
parties and its associates forming part of public shall be not less than two hundred;] 
127[(bb) maximum subscription from any investor other than sponsor(s), its related 
parties and its associates shall not be more than 25 percent of the total unit 
capital;] 
(c) 128[***] 
(d) the offer size is not less than two hundred and fifty crore rupees: 
                                                 
123 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendme nt) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 14.02.2023. 
124 Substituted for “all the assets owned by REIT” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
125 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
126 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
127 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations,  2020, w.e.f. 
16.06.2020. 
128 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.  
Prior to its omission, sub- clause (c) read as under :  
 “the units proposed to be offered to the public is not less than twenty five per cent. of the total of the outstanding 
units of the REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document: 
Provided that for initial offer of value greater than five hundred crore rupees, if prior to the initial offer units of 
the REIT are held by the public, the units proposed to be offered to the public shall be calculated after reducing 
such existing units for satisfying the aforesaid percentage requirement;”

[Page 35]
35 
 
Provided that the requirement of ownership of assets under clause (b) and size of REIT 
under clause (d) may be complied 129[at any point of time before allotment of units in 
accordance with offer document/placement memorandum] subject to a binding agreement 
with the relevant party(ies) that 130[such] requirements shall be fulfilled prior to 131[such] 
allotment of units 132[and], a declaration to the Board and 133[to] the designated stock 
exchanges to that effect and adequate disclosures in this regard in the 134[***] offer 
document. 
135[(2A) For an REIT raising funds through an initial offer, the units proposed to be offered to 
the public through such initial offer  
(a) shall be not less than twenty five per cent. of the total of the outstanding units 
of the REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document, if the post 
issue capital of the REIT calculated at offer price is less than rupees one thousand 
six hundred crore: 
Provided that the requirement at sub -clause (a) shall be complied along with the 
requirement under Regulation 14 (2)(d) of the REIT Regulations. 
(b) shall be of the value of at least Rs 400 crore, if the post issue capital of the REIT 
calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees one thousand six hundred 
crore and less than rupees four thousand crore; 
(c) shall be not less than ten per cent. of the total of the outstanding units of the 
REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document, if  the post issue 
capital of the REIT calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees four 
thousand crore: 
136[***] 
                                                 
129 Substituted for “with after initial offer”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Invest ment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
130 Substituted for “the” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
131 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulatio ns, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
132 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
133 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
134 Omitted “initial” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
135 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
136 The words “Provided that any units offered to sponsor or the manager or their related parties or their associates 
shall not be counted towards units offered to the public: ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.

[Page 36]
36 
 
Provided 137[***] that any listed REIT which has public holding below twenty five per 
cent on account of sub -clauses (ii) and (iii) above, such REIT shall increase its public 
holding to at least twenty five per cent, within a period of three years from the date of 
listing pursuant to initial offer.] 
(3) Any subsequent issue of units by the REIT may be by way of follow-on offer, preferential 
allotment, qualified institutional placement, rights issue, bonus issue, offer for sale or any other 
mechanism and in the manner as may be specified by the Board. 
(4) REIT, through the 138[merchant banker], shall file a draft offer document 139[along with the 
fee as specified in Schedule II,] with the designated stock exchange(s) and the Board, not less 
than 140[thirty] working days before filing the 141[***] offer document with the designated stock 
exchange 142[and the Board]. 
(5) The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public, for comments, if any, 
143[***] by hosting it on the websites of the Board, designated stock exchanges and merchant 
bankers associated with the issue 144[, for a period of not less than twenty one days]. 
(6) The 145[draft offer document and/ or offer document] shall be accompanied by a due 
diligence certificate signed by the 146[***] lead merchant banker.  
(7) The Board may communicate its comments to the lead merchant banker and, in the interest 
of investors, may require the lead merchant banker to carry out such modifications in the draft 
offer document as it deems fit.  
(8) The lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received from the Board on the 
draft offer document are suitably taken into account prior to the filing of the offer document 
with the designated stock exchanges. 
                                                 
137 The word “ further” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
138 Substituted for “manager” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
139 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
140 Substituted for “twenty one” by the SEBI (Real Estate In vestment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
141 Omitted “final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
142 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations,  2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
143 Omitted “to be submitted to the Board, within a period of at least ten days,” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
144 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
145 Substituted for “draft and final offer document” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
146 Omitted “Manager and” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trust s) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016

[Page 37]
37 
 
(9) In case no 147[observations] are 148[issued] by the Board 149[on] the draft offer document 
within twenty one working days from the date of receipt of satisfacto ry reply from the lead 
merchant bankers or manager, the REIT may 150[file] the 151[***] offer document or follow-on 
offer document 152[with the Board and the exchange(s)]: 
153[***] 
 (10) The 154[***] offer document shall be filed with the designated stock exchanges and the 
Board not less than five working days before opening of the offer 155[***]. 
(11) The initial offer or follow-on offer 156[or rights issue] shall be made by the REIT within a 
period of not more than 157[one year] from the date of 158[***] issuance of observations by the 
Board 159[***]:  
Provided that if the initial offer or follow -on offer 160[or rights issue] is not made within the 
specified time period, a fresh 161[draft] offer document shall be filed.  
162[Provided further that the REIT shall not be required to file draft offer  document with the 
Board in case of a fast track rights issue, subject to the fulfillment of the conditions as specified 
by the Board from time to time.] 
                                                 
147 Substituted for “modifications” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
148 Substituted for “suggested” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Am endment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
149 Substituted for “in” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
150 Substituted for “issue” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations,  2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
151 Omitted “final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
152 Substituted for “to the public” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
153 Omitted “Provided that prior to issue of such final offer document, it shall be filed with the designated stock 
exchanges and with the Board.”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
154 Omitted “final” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
155 Omitted “and such filing with the Board shall be accompanied by filing fees as specified under Schedule II”  
by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
156 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
157 Substituted for “six months” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulati ons, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
158 Omitted “last” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
159 Omitted “, if any or if no observations have been issued by the Board, within a period of not more than six 
months from the date of filing of offer document with the designated stock exchanges”  by the SEBI (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
160 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 , w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
161 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
162 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 02.03.2020

[Page 38]
38 
 
 (12) The REIT may invite for subscriptions and allot units to any person, whether resident or 
foreign: 
Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be subject to guidelines as may 
be specified by Reserve Bank of India and the government from time to time. 
(13) The application for subscription shall b e accompanied by a statement containing the 
abridged version of the offer document, detailing the risk factors and summary of the terms of 
issue. 
(14) The minimum subscription 163[amount] from any investor in initial 164[ and follow-on offer 
shall fall in the range of ten thousand rupees to fifteen thousand rupees]. 
(15) Initial offer and follow -on offer shall not be open for subscription for a period of more 
than thirty days. 
(16) In case of over-subscriptions, the REIT shall allot units to the applicants on a proportionate 
basis rounded off to the nearest integer subject to minimum subscription amount per subscriber 
as specified in sub-regulation (14). 
(17) The REIT shall allot units or refund application money, as the case may be, within twelve 
working days from the date of closing of the issue. 
(18) The REIT shall issue units only in dematerialized form to all the applicants. 
(19) The price of REIT units issued by way of public issue shall be determined through the 
book building process or any other process in accordance with the circulars or guidelines issued 
by the Board and in the manner as may be specified by the Board. 
(20) The REIT shall refund money, - 
(a) to all applicants in case it fails to collect subscription amount of exceeding 
165[ninety] per cent. of the 166[fresh] issue size as specified in the 167[***] offer 
document 168[***]; 
                                                 
163 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 30.07.2021. 
164 Substituted for “and/or public offer shall be rupees fifty thousand” by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 30.07.2021. Sub -regulation (14) 
was earlier substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (14) read as follows: 
“(14) Under both the initial offer and follow-on public offer, the REIT shall not accept subscription of an amount 
less than two lakh rupees from an applicant.” 
165 Substituted for “seventy five” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
166 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
167 Omitted “initial” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trust s) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
168 Omitted “or follow -on offer document” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 39]
39 
 
(b) to applicants to the extent of oversubscription in case the moneys received is in 
excess of the extent of over -subscription as specified in the 169[***] offer 
document: 
Provided that right to retain such over subscription cannot exceed twenty five per 
cent. of the issue size;  
170[Provided further, that the offer document shall contain adequate disclosures 
towards the utilisation of such oversubscription proceeds, if any, and such proceeds 
retained on account of oversubscription shall not be utilised towards general 
purposes.] 
(c) to all applicants in case the number of subscribers to the initial offer forming part 
of the public is less than two hundred. 
(21) If the manager fails to allot, or list the units, or refund the money within the specified time, 
then the manager shall pay interest to the unit holders at fifteen per cent. per annum, till such 
allotment/ listing/refund and such interest shall not be recovered in the form of fees or any 
other form payable to the manager by the REIT. 
(22) Units may be offered for sale to public,- 
(a) if such units have been held by the existing unitholders for a period of at least one 
year prior to the filing of draft offer document with the Board: 
Provided that the holding period for the equity shares 171[, compulsorily convertible 
securities (from the date such securities are fully paid -up)] or partnership interest 
in the 172[holdco and/or] SPV against which such units have been received shall be 
considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period referred in this sub -
regulation: 
173[Provided further that the compulsorily convertible securities, whose holding 
period has been included for the purpose of calculation for offer for sale, shal l be 
converted to equity shares of the holdco or SPV, prior to filing of offer document.] 
(b) subject to other circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this 
regard. 
                                                 
169 Omitted “initial offer document or follow -on” by the SEBI (Real Estat e Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
170 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
171 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 20 17, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
172 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
173 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017

[Page 40]
40 
 
174[(22A) The amount for general purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft 
offer document filed with the Board, shall not exceed Ten per cent of the amount raised by the 
REIT by issuance of units.] 
(23) If the REIT fails to make its initial offer within three years from the date of registration 
with the Board, it shall surrender its certificate of registration to the Board and cease to operate 
as a REIT: 
Provided that the Board, if it deems fit, may extend the period by another one year: 
Provided further that the REIT may later re-apply for registration, if it so desires. 
(24) The Board may specify by issue of guidelines  or circulars any other requirements, as it 
deems fit, pertaining to issue and allotment of units by a REIT. 
 
Offer document and advertisements.  
15. (1) The Offer document of the REIT shall contain material, true, correct and adequate 
disclosures to enable the investors to make an informed decision.  
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the offer document shall- 
(a) include all information as specified in Schedule III to these regulations or as specified 
in any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board in this regard;  
(b) not be misleading and not contain any untrue statements or mis-statements; 
(c) not provide for any guaranteed returns to the investors;  
(d) include such other disclosures as may be specified by the Board. 
(3) Any advertisement material relating to any issue of units of the REIT shall not be 
misleading and shall not contain anything extraneous to the contents of the offer document. 
(4) If an advertisement contains positive highlights, it shall also contain risk factors with 
equal importance in all aspects including print size. 
(5) The advertisements shall be in accordance with the offer document and any circulars or 
guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this regard. 
 
Listing and trading of units. 
16. (1) After the initial offer  it shall be mandatory for all units of REITs to be listed on a 
recognized stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals within a period of twelve 
working days from the date of closure of the offer. 
                                                 
174 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 41]
41 
 
(2) The listing of the units of the REIT shall be in accordance with the listing agreement entered 
into between the REIT and the designated stock exchange.  
175[(2A) In the event o f non -receipt of listing permission from the stock exchange(s) or 
withdrawal of Observation Letter issued by the Board, wherever applicable, the units shall not 
be eligible for listing and the REIT shall be liable to refund the subscription monies, if any, to 
the respective allottees immediately alongwith interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum 
from the date of allotment.] 
(3) The units of the REIT listed in recognized stock exchanges shall be traded, cleared and 
settled in accordance with the b ye-laws of concerned stock exchanges and such conditions as 
may be specified by the Board. 
(4) Trading lot for the purpose of trading of units of the REIT shall consist of 176[one unit]. 
(5) The REIT shall redeem units only by way of a buy-back or at the time of delisting of units. 
(6) The units of REIT shall be remain listed on the designated stock exchange unless delisted 
under regulation 17.  
(7) The minimum public holding for the units of the listed REIT shall be  177[ in accordance 
with the sub-regulation (2A) of Regulation 14] , failing which action may be taken as may be 
specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchange including delisting of units under 
regulation 17: 
Provided that in case of breach of the conditions specified in this sub-regulation, the trustee 
may provide a period of six months to the manager to rectify the same, failing which the 
manager shall apply for delisting under Regulation 17.  
(8) Any person other than the sponsor(s) holding units of the REIT prior to in itial offer shall 
hold the units for a period of not less than one year from the date of listing of the units subject 
to circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board.  
(9) The Board and designated stock exchanges may specify any other requirements pertaining 
to listing and trading of units of the REIT by issuance of guidelines or circulars.  
 
Delisting of units. 
                                                 
175 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
176 Substituted for “100 units” by the Securities and Exchange Board of Indi a (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 30.07.2021. Prior to the substitution, “consist of 100 units” were 
substituted for “be one lakh rupees” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 22.4.2019. 
177 Substituted for “twenty five per cent. the total number of outstanding units at all times, and the number of unit 
holders of the REIT forming part of the public shall be two hundred at all times” by the SEBI  (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.

[Page 42]
42 
 
17. (1) The manager shall apply for delisting of  units of the REIT to the Board and the 
designated stock exchanges if,- 
(a) the public holding falls below the specified limit under sub-regulation (7) of regulation 
16; 
(b) 178[***] 
(c) if there are no projects or assets remaining under the REIT for a period exceeding six 
months and REIT does not propose to invest in any project in future: 
Provided that, the period may be extended by further six months, with the approval of 
unit holders in the manner as specified in regulation 22; 
(d) the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for violation of the 
listing agreement or these regulations or the Act;  
(e) the sponsor(s) or trustee requests such delisting and such request has been approved by 
unit holders in accordance with sub-regulation (6) of regulation 22; 
(f) unit holders apply for such delisting in accordance with regulation 22; 
(g) the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for violation of the 
listing agreement, these regulations or the Act or in the interest of the unit holders. 
(2) The Board and the designated stock exchanges may consider such application for approval 
or rejection as may be appropriate in the interest of the unit holders. 
 (3) The Board, instead of requiring delisting of the units, if it deems fit, may provide additional 
time to the REIT or parties to the REIT to comply with regulations. 
(4) The Board may reject the application for delisting and take any other action, as it deems fit, 
under these regulations or the Act for violation of the listing agreement or these regulations or 
the Act. 
(5) The procedure for delisting of units of REIT including provision of exit option to the unit 
holders shall be in accordance with the listing agreement and in accordance with procedure as 
may be specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchanges from time to time. 
(6) The Board may require the REIT to wind up and sell its assets in order to redeem units of 
the unit holders for the purpose of delisting of units and  the Board may through circulars or 
guidelines specify the manner of such winding up or sale. 
(7) After delisting of its units, the REIT shall surrender its certificate of registration to the 
Board and shall no longer undertake activity of a REIT: 
                                                 
178 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.  
Prior to its omission, sub- clause (b) read as under :  
“the number of unit holders of the REIT forming part of the public falls below two hundred;”

[Page 43]
43 
 
Provided that the REIT and parties to the REIT shall co ntinue to be liable for all their acts of 
omissions and commissions with respect to activities of the REIT notwithstanding such 
surrender. 
179[CHAPTER IVA 
FRAMEWORK FOR UNIT BASED EMPLOYEE BENEFIT SCHEME 
Applicability 
17A. (1)  The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable for all unit based employee 
benefit scheme introduced on or after the date of this chapter coming into force: 
Provided that the provisions pertaining to disclosure requirements in this chapter shall 
apply to any unit based employee benefit scheme introduced prior and subsisting as on 
the date of this chapter coming into force. 
(2) For unit based employee benefit scheme introduced prior to this chapter coming 
into force, any unit acquired or any unit based employee benefit options granted by any 
employee benefit trust after the date of this chapter coming into force, shall be in 
compliance with this chapter. 
Nature of scheme and implementation of scheme through trust. 
17B. (1) The unit based employee benefit scheme shall be in the nature of employe e unit 
option scheme. 
(2) Any offer of a unit based employee benefit scheme by the manager shall not result 
in any additional cost to the REIT, its HoldCo and SPV. 
(3) The unit based employee benefit scheme shall be implemented through a separate 
employee benefit trust which shall be created by the manager. 
(4) The manager shall ensure that the trust deed under which the employee benefit 
trust is formed contains provisions as specified in Part A of Schedule X of these 
regulations. 
Manner of receiving units by the employee benefit trust. 
17C. (1) The employee benefit trust may receive units of the REIT in the following manner 
for the purpose of offering unit based employee benefit scheme: 
                                                 
179 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024.

[Page 44]
44 
 
(a) The manager may receive the units of REIT in lieu of management fees, 
through the employee benefit trust, only for the limited purpose of providing 
unit based employee benefit on such units;  
Explanation. – For the above purpose, the manager may take full or part of the 
management fees in the form of units of REIT.  
(b) A shareholder of manager may transfer full or part of the units of REIT held 
by it to the employee benefit trust; 
Provided that in case a sponsor is also a shareholder of the manager, then 
sponsor group and associate of the sponsor may also transfer full or part of the 
units held by them to the employee benefit trust;  
(c) The manager may transfer full or part of the unit s of REIT held by it to the 
employee benefit trust; 
Explanation. – For the purpose of clauses (b) and (c), any transfer of units to 
the employee benefit trust shall be irrevocable and without any consideration 
in return i.e. shall constitute a gift to the employee benefit trust. 
(2) Subordinate units shall not be eligible for being transferred to the employee benefit 
trust or being made part of a unit based employee benefit scheme. 
(3) The cash accumulated by the employee benefit trust on account of distributions 
received on units of the REIT held by such trust, income earned on the assets held by 
the employee benefit trust and receipt of exercise price from the employees of the 
manager on exercise of options, may be used by the employee benefit trust for acquiring 
units of the REIT either from the secondary market or during any fresh issuance of units 
by the REIT only for the purpose of using such units for unit based employee benefit 
scheme. 
(4) The employee benefit trust may subscribe to the units of the REIT subject to 
compliance with the minimum lot for primary market transaction specified under these 
regulations. 
Secondary acquisition. 
17D. (1)  The employee benefit trust shall not be used as a mode for trading in units of the 
REIT.

[Page 45]
45 
 
(2) Secondary acquisition in a financial year by the employee benefit trust shall not 
exceed two per cent of the total outstanding units of the REIT as at the end of the 
previous financial year. 
Explanation. - “secondary acquisition” means acquisition of existing units of the REIT 
by the employee benefit trust on the platform of a recognised stock exchange for cash 
consideration for the purpose of unit based employee benefit scheme. 
(3) The total number of units under secondary acquisition held by the employee benefit 
trust shall at no point of time e xceed five per cent of the total outstanding units of the 
REIT as at the end of the financial year immediately prior to the year in which the 
unitholders approval is obtained for such secondary acquisition: 
Provided that the above ceiling limit shall exclu de the units that are allotted to the 
employee benefit trust by way of a new issue or gift. 
(4) The manager shall obtain approval of unitholders for secondary acquisition as per 
sub-regulation (6) of regulation 22 of these regulations.  
(5) The employee benefit tr ust shall be required to hold the units acquired through 
secondary acquisition for a minimum period of six months. 
(6) The employee benefit trust shall disclose the period during which it plans to 
undertake secondary acquisition, in advance of at least seven working days (excluding 
the date of intimation and the date of start of such period), to the recognised stock 
exchanges and the depositories.  
(7) The employees of the manager shall not sell units of the REIT held by them during 
the period referred in sub-regulation (6). 
(8) The manager shall submit a list of its employees to the depositories along with 
relevant details of the employees including their Income Tax Permanent Account 
Number, in advance of at least seven working days (excluding the date of inti mation 
and the date of start of the period during which the employee benefit trust plans to 
undertake secondary acquisition).  
(9) The depositories shall impose lock -in on the holdings of units of REIT by such 
employees and the lock-in shall be released after the period during which the employee 
benefit trust plans to undertake secondary acquisition, as disclosed to the recognised 
stock exchanges and depositories has elapsed.

[Page 46]
46 
 
Manner of allotment of units to the employee benefit trust by the REIT. 
17E. (1)  A manager of any REIT that allots units to the employee benefit trust in lieu of 
management fees shall ensure the following: 
(a) obtaining the approval of unitholders as per sub-regulation (6) of regulation 22 
of these regulations before issuance of units to the employee benefit trust; 
(b) issuance of units to the employee benefit trust only once in a financial year, 
within ninety days after the completion of the annual valuation exercise;  
(c) issuance of units to the employee benefit trust in compliance with the 
guidelines for preferential issue of units specified by the Board; 
(d) allotting such  units of REIT directly to the employee benefit trust so that these 
units are used exclusively for unit based employee benefit scheme. 
Role of nomination and remuneration committee. 
17F.  (1) The nomination and remuneration committee of the manager shall be responsible 
for the administration and superintendence of the unit based employee benefit scheme.  
(2) The nomination and remuneration committee shall formulate the detailed terms 
and conditions of the unit based employee benefit scheme which shall include the 
provisions as specified in Part B of Schedule X of these regulations. 
(3) The nomination and remuneration committee of the manager shall frame suitable 
policies and procedures to ensu re compliance with all securities laws particularly the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and 
Unfair Trade Practices relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 by the 
manager, its directors, its key managerial personnel, sponsor, recipients of units under 
the unit based employee benefit scheme, employee benefit trust and trustee of the 
employee benefit trust. 
Variation of terms of the scheme. 
17G. (1)   The manager may vary the terms of the unit based employee benefit scheme 
offered pursuant to an earlier resolution of the unitholders but not yet exercised by the 
employees, if such variation is not prejudicial to the interests of the employees.  
(2) The manager shall obtain the approval of unitholders as per sub -regulation (6) of

[Page 47]
47 
 
regulation 22 of these regulations for variation of the terms of the unit based employee 
benefit scheme. 
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub -regulation (1), the manager may vary the 
terms of the unit based employee benefit scheme to fulfil any legal or regulatory 
obligation without seeking unitholders’ approval. 
(4) The explanatory statement to the notice for passing a resolution for variation of 
terms of a unit based employee benefit scheme and the resolution proposed to be passed 
by the unitholders shall disclose complete details of the variation, the rationale therefor, 
details of the employees who are beneficiaries of such variation and information as 
specified in Part C of Schedule X of these regulations or as otherwise specified by the 
Board. 
(5) The manager may reprice the options which are not exercised, whether or not they 
have been vested, if the scheme was rendered unattractive due to fall in the price of the 
units in the stock market:  
Provided that the manager shall ensure that such repricing is not detrimental to the 
interests of the employees and approval of the unitholders has been obtained for such 
repricing as per sub-regulation (6) of regulation 22. 
Listing. 
17H. (1)  In case a new issue of units is made under any unit based employee benefit scheme, 
units so issued shall be listed immediately on all recognised stock exchange(s) where 
the existing units are listed, subject to the following conditions: 
(a) The scheme is in compliance with these regulations; 
(b) A statement, as specified in Part D of Schedule X of these regulations, is filed and 
the manager obtains an in -principle approval from the recognised stock 
exchange(s); 
(c) As and when an exercise is made, the manager notifies the concerned recognised 
stock exchange(s) as per the statement as specified in Part E of Schedule X of 
these regulations.

[Page 48]
48 
 
Trustee of the employee benefit trust. 
17I. (1)  The trustee of the employee benef it trust shall be a trustee registered with the 
Board under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) 
Regulations, 1993. 
(2) The trustee of the REIT shall not act as the trustee of the employee benefit trust.  
(3) The employee benefit trust or its trustee shall not be eligible to vote on account of 
the units of the REIT held by such trust. 
Insider trading norms. 
17J. (1)  The provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and the Securit ies and Exchange Board of India  
(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to the Securities 
Market) Regulations, 2003 shall be applicable to the manager, its directors, its key 
managerial personnel, sponsor, recipients of units under t he unit based employee 
benefit scheme, the employee benefit trust and trustee of the employee benefit trust. 
(2) The relaxations and exemptions provided under the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 in rela tion to employee 
stock option scheme shall mutatis -mutandis apply to the unit based employee benefit 
scheme offered in accordance with this chapter. 
(3) The trading window restrictions specified under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 shall not apply in 
respect of issue of units by the REIT to the employee benefit trust, in lieu of 
management fees, for providing unit based employee benefit in accordance with this 
chapter. 
Other requirements. 
17K. (1)  The units held by the employee benefit trust shall be used only for the purpose of 
offering unit based employee benefit scheme. 
(2) The employee benefit trust shall not undertake any transfer or sale of units of the 
REIT held by it except for providing unit based employee benefits in accordance with 
this chapter.  
(3) The units of the REIT transferred to the employee benefit trust shall be  locked in

[Page 49]
49 
 
by the depository and shall be released by the depository only for the transfer of units 
to the employees of the manager as per the unit based employee benefit scheme. 
(4) There shall be a minimum vesting period of one year for unit based employee 
benefit scheme. 
(5) The unappropriated inventory of units which are not backed by grants, acquired 
through secondary acquisition by the employee benefit trust, shall be appropriated 
within a reasonable period which shall not extend beyond the end of the subsequ ent 
financial year, or the second subsequent financial year:  
Provided that the extension upto the second subsequent financial year shall be subject 
to the approval of the nomination and remuneration committee of the manager. 
(6) No unit based employee benefit scheme shall be offered unless the disclosures as 
specified in Part G of Schedule X of these regulations  are made by the manager to the 
prospective option grantees. 
(7) The manager implementing unit based employee benefit scheme shall follow the 
requirements including the disclosure requirements of the Accounting Standards 
prescribed by the Central Government in terms of section 133 of the Companies Act, 
2013 including any 'Guidance Note on Accounting for employee share-based Payments' 
issued in that regard from time to time. 
(8) The manager granting options to its employees pursuant to a unit based employee 
benefit scheme shall be free to determine the exercise price subject to conforming to 
the accounting policies specified in sub-regulation (7) of this regulation. 
(9) The manager shall ensure that the explanatory statement to the notice prepared for 
convening a meeting of unitholders to obtain their approval for a unit based employee 
benefit scheme and the resolution proposed to be passed by the unitholders contain the 
information as specified in Part C of Schedule X of these regulations or as otherwise 
specified by the Board.  
(10) The cash accumulated by the employee benefit trust shall be deployed in liquid 
assets, which shall be unencumbered. 
(11) The unitholding of the employee benefit trust shall be shown as “non-sponsor and 
non-public” unitholding for the purpose of disclosure to the recognised stock 
exchanges.

[Page 50]
50 
 
(12) In case of change in manager, the outgoing manager shall no longer receive 
management fees or units in lieu of m anagement fees from the REIT and accordingly 
shall not offer any fresh unit based employee benefit scheme based on the units of such 
REIT.  
(13) In case of change in manager, the employee benefit trust of the outgoing manager 
shall sell and/or dispose off he units held by it within six months from the date of change 
of the manager. 
Disclosures. 
17L. (1) The manager shall disclose details of the unit based employee benefit scheme being 
implemented in the Annual Report of the REIT, as specified in Part F of Schedule X 
of these regulations. 
(2)  The manager shall include the value of options granted under a unit based 
employee benefit scheme as a part of its employee compensation and shall disclose the 
same in the Annual Report.] 
CHAPTER V 
INVESTMENT CONDITIONS, RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS, 
BORROWING AND VALUATION OF ASSETS  
Investment conditions and distribution policy. 
18. (1) The Investment by a REIT shall only be in 180[holdco and/or] SPVs or properties or 
securities or TDR in India in accordance with these regulations and in accordance with the 
investment strategy as detailed in the offer document as may be amended subsequently. 
(2) The REIT shall not invest in vacant land or agricultural land or mortgages other than 
mortgage backed securities: 
Provided that this shall not apply to any land which is contiguous and extension of an existing 
project being implemented in stages. 
(3) The REIT may invest in properties through SPVs subject to the following,- 
(a) no other shareholder or partner of the S PV shall 181[exercise] any rights that 
prevents the REIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations 182[and 
                                                 
180 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
181 Substituted for the word “have” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
182 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 51]
51 
 
an agreement 183[has been] entered into with such shareholders or partners to that 
effect prior to investment in the SPV]: 
184[Provided that the shareholders’ agreement or partnership agreement shall 
provide for an appropriate mechanism for resolution of disputes between the REIT 
and the other shareholders or partners in the SPV: 
Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall prevail in case of 
inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon a REIT 
under these regulations.] 
185[(b) the manager, in consultation with the trustee, shall appoint atleast such 
number of nominees on the board of directors or the governing board of such SPVs, 
as applicable, which are in proportion to the shareholding or holding interest of the 
REIT in the SPV;] 
(c) the manager shall ensure that in every meeting including annual general meeting 
of the SPV, the voting of the REIT is exercised 186[***]. 
187[(3A) The REIT may invest in properties through holdco subject 188[to] the following,- 
(a) the ultimate holding interest of the REIT in the underlying SPV(s) is not less 
than twenty six per cent; 
(b) no other shareholder or partner of the holdco or the SPV(s) shall 189[exercise] 
any rights that prevent the REIT, the holdco or the SPV(s) from c omplying with 
the provisions of these regulations and an agreement 190[has been] entered into with 
such shareholders or partners to that effect prior to investment in the holdco and/or 
SPVs: 
                                                 
183 Substituted for the words “shall be” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
184 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
185 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as: 
“(b) the manager, in consultation with the trustee, shall appoint the majority of the Board of directors or governing 
board of such SPVs[, as applicable;” 
186 Omitted “subject to provisions of Companies Act, 2013”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
187 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
188 Inserted by the Securities and Ex change Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
189 Substituted for the word “have” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
190 Substituted ibid for the words “shall be”.

[Page 52]
52 
 
191[Provided that the shareholders’ agreement or partnership agreement shall 
provide for an appropriate mechanism for resolution of disputes between the REIT 
and the other shareholders or partners in the holdco and/or SPV;  
Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall prevail in case of 
inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon a REIT 
under these regulations.] 
192[(c) the manager, in consultation with the Trustee, shall appoint atleast such 
number of nominees on the board of directors or the governing board of the holdco 
and/or the SPV, which are in proportion to the shareholding or holding interest of 
the REIT/holdco in the SPV;] 
(d) the manager shall ensure that in every meeting including annual general 
meeting of the holdco and/or SPV(s), the voting of the REIT is exercised;] 
(4) Not less than eighty per cent.  of value of the REIT assets shall be invested 193[***] in 
completed and rent 194[and/or income] generating properties subject to the following,- 
(a) if the investment has been made through a 195[holdco and/or] SPV, whether by way 
of equity or debt or equity linked instruments or partnership interest, only the 
portion of direct investments in properties by such 196[ holdco and/or] SPVs shall 
be considered under this sub-regulation and the remaining portion shall be included 
under sub-regulation (5);  
(b) if any project is implemented in stages, the part of the project which is completed 
and 197[rent and/or income generating] shall be considered under this sub -
regulation and the remaining portion including any contiguous land as specified 
under proviso to sub -regulation (2) shall be included under clause (a) of  sub-
regulation (5). 
                                                 
191 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
192 Substituted ibid. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as:  
“(c) the manager, in consultation with the Trustee, shall appoints the majority of the Board of directors or 
governing board of the holdco and/or SPV(s);” 
193 Omitted “proportionate to the holding of the REITs”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trus ts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
194 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017  
195 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11. 2016 
196 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
197 Substituted for the words “rent -generating” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017

[Page 53]
53 
 
(5) Not more than twenty per cent.  of value of  the REIT assets shall be invested 198[***] in 
assets other than as provided in sub-regulation (4) and such other investment shall only be in,-  
(a) properties, 199[whether directly or through a company or LLP,]  200[***] which 
are: 
(i) under-construction properties which shall be held by the REIT for not 
less than three years after completion; 
(ii) under-construction properties which are a part of the existing income 
generating properties owned by the REIT which shall be held by the REIT 
for not less than three years after completion; 
(iii) completed and not rent generating properties which shall be held by the 
REIT for not less than three years from date of purchase; 
(b) listed or unlisted debt of companies or body corporate in real estate sector: 
Provided that this shall not include  any investment made in debt of the 
201[holdco and/or SPVs]; 
(c) mortgage backed securities;  
(d) equity shares of companies 202[which are] listed on a recognized stock exchange 
in India which derive not less than seventy five per cent. of their operating 
income from real estate activity as per the audited accounts of the previous 
financial year; 
203[(da) unlisted equity shares of companies which derive not less than seventy five 
per cent. of their operating income from real estate activity as per the audited 
accounts of the previous financial year: 
Provided that the investments, made through unlisted equity shares of a 
company, in under construction properties and/or completed and not rent 
                                                 
198 Omitted “proportionate to the holding of the REITs”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
199 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
200 Omitted “in which not more than ten per cent. of value of the REIT assets shall be invested,” by the SEBI (Real 
Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
201 Substituted for “SPV” by the SEBI (Re al Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
202 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
203 Inserted by the Securities and Exchan ge Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 54]
54 
 
generating properties, shall be in compliance with clause (a) of this sub -
regulation204[:]] 
205[Provided further that no investment under this clause shall be made on and 
after the date of  coming  into  effect  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  
of  India  (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025.] 
[(db) unlisted equity shares of a company which provides property 
management/ property maintenance/housekeeping and other incidental 
services subject to the following conditions: 
i. such services are provided exclusively to the REIT , its HoldCo(s) and 
SPV(s); 
Provided that in case of business parks, townships and other real estate 
projects, such services may be provided to other entities which are contiguous 
within the project subject to the following conditions: 
a. revenue earned from other entities shall not exceed 2 0 per cent. of the 
total revenue of the company providing such services;  
b. the basis for fees/charges charged to other entities and charged to the 
REIT and its HoldCo(s) and SPV(s) shall be identical and uniform; and 
c. appropriate disclosures are made by the REIT in the annual report in this 
regard. 
ii. the entire shareholding or interest in such company is held by REIT 
either directly or through its HoldCo(s) or SPV(s). 
(e) government securities; 
(f) unutilized FSI of a project where it has already made investment; 
(g) TDR acquired for the purpose of utilization with respect to a project where it 
has already made investment; 
(h) money market instruments or cash equivalents. 
                                                 
204 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
205 Inserted, ibid.

[Page 55]
55 
 
206[(i) units of liquid mutual funds schemes where the credit risk value is at least 207[10] 
and which fall s under the Class A -I 208[or Class B -I] in the potential risk class 
matrix as specified by the Board. 
(j) interest rate derivatives, including interest rate futures, forward rate contract and 
interest rate swap, subject to the following conditions: 
A. investment in interest rate derivative shall be solely to hedge an underlying 
interest rate risk  in the existing borrowings  which qualifies as an effective 
hedge as per the applicable Indian Accounting Standards;  
B. that such investment shall only be made as a user or a client of such interest 
rate derivative, and shall not be in the nature of market making; 
C. adequate disclosures regarding investment in interest rate derivative shall 
be made in the annual report;  
D. for valuation of the investment in interest rate derivative, norms applicable 
for Mutual Funds shall be followed; and  
E. the requirements applicable to the clients or users of interest rate 
derivatives, including those specified by the Reserve Bank of India, are 
complied with.  
(k) equity shares of a company exclusively holding common infrastructure subject 
to the condition that  the REIT, its HoldCo(s) and/or SPV(s) shall own entire 
shareholding and interest in such company.] 
209[(5A) The investment conditions as specified at sub -regulation (4) and (5) of regulation 18 
shall be complied at the time of Offer document and thereafter.] 
210[(5B) A REIT may, either directly or through its HoldCo(s) or SPV(s), invest in assets falling 
under the purview of infrastructure if holding of such infrastructure asset is to earn fixed rental 
income from leasing out of such asset without assumption of any risk or reward arising out of 
or related to the operation of such asset. 
                                                 
206 Inserted, ibid. 
207 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 18.04.2026. Prior to its substitution it read as ‘12’. 
208 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 18.04.2026. 
209 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
210 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 56]
56 
 
Explanation: ─ The list of illustrative conditions to ensure conformity with the aforementioned 
principle have been specified in Schedule XI.] 
(6) Not less than 211[fifty one] per cent. of the 212[consolidated] revenues of the REIT 213[, 
holdco] and the SPV, other than gains arising from disposal of properties, shall be, at all times, 
from rental, leasing and letting real estate assets or any other income incidental to the leasing 
of such assets.  
 
214[***] 
215[***] 
(9) Conditions specified in sub -regulations (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) shall  be monitored on a 
half-yearly basis and at the time of acquisition of an asset:  
Provided that if such conditions are breached on account of market movements of the price of 
the underlying assets or securities or change in tenants or expiry of lease or sale of properties, 
the manager shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in 
this regulation are satisfied within six months of such breach:  
Provided further that the period may be extended by another six months subject  to approval 
from investors in accordance with regulation 22. 
(10) A REIT shall hold any completed and rent generating property, whether directly or through 
216[holdco or] SPV, for a period of not less than three years from the date of purchase of such 
property by the REIT or 217[holdco or] SPV. 
(11) For any sale of property, whether by the REIT or 218[holdco or] the SPV or for sale of 
shares or interest in the SPV by the 219[holdco or] REIT exceeding ten per cent. of the value of 
                                                 
211 Substituted for “seventy five” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
212 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
213 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
214 Omitted by th e Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. Prior to omission, the clause read as:  
“(7) Not less than seventy five per cent. of value of the REIT assets proportionately on a consolidated basis shall 
be rent generating.” 
 
215 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017. Prior 
to the omission, the sub-regulation read as follows: 
“(8) A REIT shall hold at least two projects, directly or through 215[holdco and/or] SPV, with not more than sixty 
per cent. of the value of the assets, proportionately on a consolidated basis, in one project.”  
216 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
217 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
218 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
219 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 57]
57 
 
REIT assets in a financial year, the manager shall obtain approval from the unit holders in 
accordance with regulation 22.  
(12) A REIT shall not invest in units of other REITs. 
(13) A REIT shall not undertake lending to any person  220[other than  the holding 
company/special purpose vehicle(s) in which the REIT has invested in, subject to disclosures 
specified in Schedule IV]: 
Provided that investment in debt securities shall not be considered as lending. 
(14) With respect to investment in leasehol d properties, the manager shall consider the 
remaining term of the lease, the objectives of the REIT, the lease profile of the REIT’s existing 
real estate assets and any other factors as may be relevant, prior to making such investment. 
(15) In case of any co-investment with any person(s) in any transaction,-  
(a) the investment by the other person(s) shall not be at terms more favourable than 
those to the REIT; 
(b) the investment shall not provide any rights to the person(s) which shall prevent the 
REIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations; 
(c) the agreement with such person(s) shall include the minimum percentage of 
distributable cash flows that will be distributed and entitlement of the REIT to 
receive not less than pro rata distributions and mode for resolution of any disputes 
between the REIT and the other person(s). 
(16) With respect to distributions made by the REIT and the 221[holdco and/or] SPV,- 
(a) not less than ninety per cent.  of net distributable cash flows of the SPV shall be 
distributed to the REIT 222[/holdco] in proportion of its holding in the SPV subject 
to applicable provisions in the Companies Act , 2013 or the Limited Liability 
Partnership Act, 2008; 
223[(aa) with regard t o distribution of net distributable cash flows by the holdco to 
the REIT, subject to applicable provisions in the Companies Act, 2013 or the Limited 
Liability Partnership Act, 2008, the following shall be complied: 
                                                 
220 Inserted by theSEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017  
221 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
222 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
223 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 58]
58 
 
(i) with respect to the cash flows received by the holdco from underlying SPVs, 
100% of such cash flows received by the holdco shall be distributed to the REIT 
224[:]  
225Provided that if the net distributable cash flow generated by the holdco on its 
own is negative; the holdco may adjust it against the cash flows received from 
its underlying SPVs provided that it makes appropriate disclosures in this regard 
to the unitholders in such form and manner as may be specified by the Board. 
(ii) with respect to the cash flows generated by the holdco  on its own, not less 
than 90% of such net distributable cash flows shall be distributed by the holdco 
to the REIT;] 
(b) not less than ninety per cent.  of net distributable cash flows of the REIT shall be 
distributed to the unit holders; 
226[(ba) cash flows generated by all REIT assets shall be considered;] 
(c) such distributions shall be declared 227[]not less than once every six months in every 
financial year and shall be made 228[within five working days from the record date]; 
229[Explanation. — For the purpose of above clause, record date for the payment of 
distribution shall be two working days from the date of the declaration of 
distribution, excluding the date of declaration and the record date.] 
(d) if any property is sold by the REIT  or 230[holdco or SPV or if the equity shares or 
interest in the holdco/SPV are sold by the REIT, then],- 
                                                 
224 Substitied for “; and” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
225 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
226 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
227 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 27.11.2024. Prior to omission, the words were “and made”. 
228 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 27.11.2024. Prior to the substitution the words were “not later than fifteen days from the 
date of such declaration”. 
229 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 27.11.2024. 
230 Substituted for “SPV” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016

[Page 59]
59 
 
(i) if the REIT proposes to reinvest sale proceeds, if any, into another 
property, it shall not be required to distribute any sale proceeds from 
such sale to the unit holders; 231[***] 
(ii) if the REIT 232[***] proposes not to invest the sales proceeds made into 
any other property, 233[within a period of 1 year, ] it shall be require d to 
distribute not less than ninety per cent. of the sales proceeds in accordance 
with clauses (a) 234[, (b), (c) and (d) of sub-regulation 16]; 
(e) if the distributions are not made within 235[the timeline specified in clause (c) of sub-
regulation 16], then the manager shall be liable to pay interest to the unit holders at 
the rate of fifteen per cent.  per annum till the distribution is made and such interest 
shall not be recovered in the form of fees or any other form payable to the manager 
by the REIT. 
(f) 236[any amount remaining unclaimed or unpaid out of the distributions declared by a 
REIT in terms of sub-clause (c), shall be transferred to the ‘Investor Protection and 
Education Fund’ constituted by the Board in terms of section 11 of the Act, in such 
manner as may be specified by the Board 237[:]] 
238[Provided that the amount transferred to Investor Protect ion and Education fu nd 
shall not bear any interest.] 
(g) 239[the unclaimed or unpaid amount of a person that has been transferred to the 
Investor Protection and Education Fund in terms of sub -clause (f), may be claimed 
in such manner as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
(17) No schemes shall be launched under the REIT.  
                                                 
231 Omitted “and if the SPV proposes to reinvest sale proceeds, if any, into another property, it shall not be required 
to distribute any sale proceeds from such sale to  the REIT;”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
232 Omitted “or SPV” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
233 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
234 Substituted for “and (b)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
235 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate  Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 27.11.2024. Prior to the substitution the words were “fifteen days of declaration”. 
236 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 14.02.2023. 
237 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 23.10.2023. 
238 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 23.10.2023. 
239 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 23.10.2023.

[Page 60]
60 
 
(18) The Board may specify any additional conditions for investments by the REIT as it deems 
fit. 
 
Related party transactions. 
19. (1) All related party transactions shall be on an arms-length basis, in the best interest of the 
unit holders, consistent with the strategy and investment objectives of the REIT and shall be 
disclosed to the designated stock exchange and unit holders peri odically in accordance with 
the listing agreement and these regulations. 
(2) A REIT, subject to the conditions specified hereunder, may,-  
(a)  acquire assets from related parties;  
(b) sell assets or securities to related parties; 
(c) lease assets to related parties;  
(d) lease assets from related parties;  
(e) invest in securities issued by related parties;  
(f) borrow from related parties.  
(3) With respect to purchase or sale of properties 240[***] after initial offer,- 
(a) two valuation reports from two different valuers, independent of each other, shall 
be obtained; 
(b) such valuers shall undertake a full valuation of the assets proposed to be purchased 
or sold as specified under regulation 21; 
(c) Transactions for purchase of such assets shall be at a price  not greater than, and 
transactions for sale of such assets shall be at a price not lesser than, 241[one 
hundred ten percent and ninety percent of the] average of the two independent 
valuations 242[, respectively].  
(4) In case of any related party transactions entered into prior to making the initial offer,- 
(a) adequate disclosures to that effect shall be made in the initial offer document 
including a consolidated full valuation report of all such assets 243[***]; 
                                                 
240 Omitted “both prior to and”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
241 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
242 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
243 Words, figures and symbols “in accordance with clause (a) of sub-regulation (3), as may be applicable” omitted 
by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017

[Page 61]
61 
 
(b) the REIT shall enter into proper and valid agreements with such related parties 
at the price  or interest rate  or rental value mentioned in the initial offer 
document;  
(c) If the transactions are conditional upon the REIT receiving a minimum amount 
of subscription, adequate disclosures shall be made in  the offer document and 
the agreements to that effect. 
(5) In case of any related party transactions entered into after the initial offer,- 
(a) adequate disclosures shall be made to the unit holders and to the designated 
stock exchanges; 
(b) in case,- 
(i) the total value of all the related party transactions, in a financial year, 
pertaining to acquisition  or sale of properties  244[, whether directly or 
through holdco and/or SPVs,] or investments into securities exceeds ten 
per cent. of the value of REIT; or 
(ii) the value of the funds borrowed from related parties, in a financial year, 
exceeds ten per cent. of the total consolidated borrowings of the REIT  245[, 
holdco and/or SPVs]; 
approval from the unit holders shall be obtained prior to entering into any such 
subsequent transaction with any related party; 
(c) for the purpose of obtaining approval for such transactions, the manager shall 
obtain approval from unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 and 
request for such approval shall be accompanied by a transaction document. 
(6) The disclosures in the offer document and transaction document shall include the following, 
as may be applicable,- 
(a) identity of the related parties and their relationship with the REIT  or 
parties to the REIT; 
(b) nature and details of the transactions entered into  or proposed to be 
entered into with such related parties including description and location  
of assets; 
                                                 
244 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
245 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 62]
62 
 
(c) the price or value of the assets  or securities bought or sold or leased or 
proposed to be bought  or sold or leased and if leased or proposed  to be 
leased, value of the lease; 
(d) ready reckoner rate of the real estate asset being bought or sold: 
Provided that where such ready reckoner rate are not available, property 
tax assessment value or similar published rates by Government authorities 
shall be disclosed; 
(e) summary of the valuation report(s); 
(f) the current and expected rental yield; 
(g) if the transactions are conditional upon the REIT receiving a stated 
amount of subscriptions, the minimum amount of such subscriptions to 
be received; 
(h) amount of borrowing and rate of interest in case of borrowing from any 
related party; 
(i) any other information that is required for the investor to take an informed 
decision.  
(7) With respect to any properties leased to related parties to the REIT, both before and after 
initial offer, if,- 
(a) such lease area exceeds twenty per cent. of the total area of the underlying 
assets; 
(b) value of assets under such lease exceeds twenty per cent of the value of the 
total underlying assets; 
(c) rental income obtained from such leased assets exceeds twenty per cent of 
the value of the rental income of all underlying assets, 
a fairness opinion from an independent valuer shall be obtained by the manager and 
submitted to the trustee and approval of unitholders in accordance with regulation 22 shall 
be obtained.  
(8) For any related party transaction requiring approval of the unit holders or proposed to be 
undertaken immediately after the initial offer, the agreement shall be entered into within six 
months from date of close of initial offer or from date of approval of the unit holders, as the 
case may be: 
Provided that in case of the agreement is not entered into within such period, approval from 
the unit holders may be sought for extension for ano ther six months in accordance with 
regulation 22 with the updated valuation report(s).

[Page 63]
63 
 
(9) Adequate disclosures of all related party transactions that have been entered into prior to 
the follow-on offer shall be made in the follow-on offer document. 
(10) Transaction between two or more of the REITs with a common manager or sponsor shall 
be deemed to be related party transactions for each of the REITs and provisio ns of this 
regulation shall apply:  
Provided that this sub-regulation shall also apply if the managers or sponsors of the REITs are 
different entities but are associates.  
(11) With respect to any related party transaction, details of any fees or commissions received 
or to be received by 246[such] related party247[(ies)] shall be adequately disclosed to the unit 
holders and to the designated stock exchanges. 
(12) No related party shall retain cash or other rebates from any property agent in consideration 
for referring transactions in REIT assets to the property agent. 
(13) Where any of the related parties has an interest in a business which competes or is likely 
to compete, either directly or indirectly, with the activities of the REIT, the following details 
shall be disclosed in the offer document,- 
(a) details of the such bu siness including an explanation as to how such business 
shall compete with the REIT; 
(b) a declaration that the related party shall perform its duty in relation to the REIT 
independent of its related business; 
(c) declaration as to whether any acquisition of such business by the REIT is 
intended and if so, details of the same thereof.  
(14) Any arrangement or transaction or contract with any related party other than as included 
in this regulation shall be disclosed to the unit holders and to the designated stock exchanges. 
 
Borrowings and deferred payments. 
20. 248[(1) A REIT, whose units are listed on a recognized stock exchange, may issue debt 
securities in the manner specified by the Board: 
Provided that such debt securities shall be listed on recognized stock exchange(s).] 
                                                 
246 Substituted “any person or entity which is an associate o f the” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
247 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
248 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017

[Page 64]
64 
 
249[(2)] The aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the REIT 250[, holdco 
and/or the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents shall never exceed forty nine per cent. of 
the value of the REIT assets: 
Provided that such borrowings and deferred payments shall not include any refundable security 
deposits to tenants.  
251[Explanation 1. – Investment by REITs in overnight mutual funds, characterized by their 
investments in overnight securities, having maturity of one day, shall be considered as cash 
and cash equivalent. 
Explanation 2. – The amount of cash and cash equivalent shall be excluded from the value of 
the assets of the REIT.]  
252[(3)] If the aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the REIT 253[, 
holdco and/or the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents exceed twenty five per cent. of the 
value of the REIT assets, for any further borrowing,- 
(a) 254[issuer credit rating of the REIT ] shall be obtained from a credit rating agency 
registered with the Board; and 
(b) approval of unit holders shall be obtained in the manner as specified in regulation 
22. 
255[(4)] If the conditions specified in sub -regulations (1) and (2) are breached on account of 
market movements of the price of the underlying assets or securities, the manager shall inform 
the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in this regulation are satisfied 
within six months of such breach. 
 
Valuation of assets. 
21. (1) The valuer shall not be an associate of the sponsor(s)  or manager or trustee and shall 
have not less than five years of experience in valuation of real estate. 
(2) Full valuation includes a detailed valuation of all assets by the valuer  including physical 
inspection of every property by the valuer. 
                                                 
249 Re-numbered by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
250 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.1 1.2016 
251 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 14.02.2023. 
252 Re-numbered by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
253 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
254 Substituted for the words “credit rating” by  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
255 Re-numbered by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017

[Page 65]
65 
 
(3) Full valuation report shall include the mandatory minimum disclosures as specified in 
Schedule V to these regulations. 
(4) A full valuation shall be conducted by the valuer atleast once in every financial year: 
 
256[Provided that such full valuation shall be conducted as at the end of the financial year ending 
March 31st and the valuation report shall be submitted by the manager to the designated stock 
exchange(s) along with the annual financial results.] 
(5) A half yearly valuation of the REIT assets shall be conducted by the valuer 257[as at the end 
of] the half-year ending on September 30 for incorporating any key changes in the previous six 
months and such half yearly valuation report shall be 258[submitted by the manager to the 
designated stock exchange(s) along with the quarterly financial results for the quarter ending 
September 30th.]  
(6) Valuation reports received by the manager shall be submitted to the designated stock 
exchange 259[***] within fifteen days from the receipt of such valuation reports260[:] 
261[Provided that the valuation reports specified in sub-regulation (4) and sub-regulation (5) of 
regulation 21 shall be submitted within the timelines as specified in these sub-regulations.] 
(7) Prior to any issue of units to the public and any other issue of units as may be specified by 
the Board, the valuer shall undertake full valuation  of all the REIT assets and include a 
summary of the report in the offer document: 
Provided that such valuation report shall not be more than six months old at the time of such 
offer: 
Provided further that this shall not apply in cases where full valuation has been undertaken not 
more than six months prior to such issue and no material changes have occurred thereafter.  
                                                 
256 Substitied for the words “ Provided that such full valuation shall be conducted at the end of the financial year 
ending March 31st within three months from the end of such year.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
257 Substitied for the word “for” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
258 Substitied for the words “ prepared within forty five days from the date of end of such half year. ” by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
259 The words “ and unit holders ” were omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
260 Substitied for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.  
261 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.

[Page 66]
66 
 
(8) For any transaction of purchase or sale of properties,262[ whether directly or through holdco 
and/or SPVs,]- 
(a) if the transaction is a related party transaction, the valuation shall be in accordance 
with regulation 19; 
(b) if the transaction is not a related party transaction,- 
(i)  a full valuation of the specific property shall be undertaken by the valuer; 
(ii) if ,- 
(1) in case of a purchase transaction, the property is proposed to be 
purchased at a value greater than one hundred and ten per cent.  of the 
value of the property as assessed by the valuer; 
(2) in case of a sale transaction, the property is proposed to be sold at  a 
value less than ninety per cent. of the value of the property as assessed 
by the valuer,  
approval of the unit holders shall be obtained in accordance with regulation 22. 
(9) No valuer shall undertake valuation of the same property  for more than four years 
consecutively: 
Provided that the valuer may be reappointed after a period of not less than two years from the 
date it ceases to be the valuer of the REIT. 
263[***]  
(11) In case of any material development that may have an impact on the valuation of the REIT 
assets, then manager shall require the valuer to undertake full valuation of the property under 
consideration within not more than two months from the date of suc h event and disclose the 
same to the trustee 264[***] and the Designated Stock Exchanges within fifteen days of such 
valuation. 
(12) The valuer shall not value any assets in which it has either been involved with the 
acquisition or disposal within the last twelve months other than such cases where valuer was 
engaged by the REIT for such acquisition or disposal.  
                                                 
262 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
263 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017. Prior 
to its omission, the sub-regulation read as follows: 
“(10) Any valuation undertaken by any valuer shall abide by international valuation standards and valuation 
standards as may be specified by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) for valua tion of real estate 
assets: 
Provided that in case of any conflict, standards specified by ICAI shall prevail.” 
264 The words “, investors” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.

[Page 67]
67 
 
 
CHAPTER VI 
RIGHTS OF UNIT HOLDERS, GENERAL OBLIGATIONS, DISCLOSURES AND 
REPORTING  
Rights and meetings of unit holders. 
22. (1) The unit holder shall have the rights to receive income or distributions as provided for 
in the Offer document or trust deed.  
(2) With respect to any matter requiring approval of the unit holders,- 
(a) a resolution shall be considered as passed when the votes cast by unit holders, so 
entitled and voting, in favour of the resolution exceed a certain percentage, as 
specified in this regulation, of the 265[total votes cast]; 
266[(aa) the voting threshold specified under these regulations shall be calculated on the 
basis of unit holders present and voting.  
Explanation. — The unit holders voting through the electronic voting facility and 
postal ballot shall be counted for the determination of unit holders present and 
voting;] 
(b) the voting may also be done by postal ballot or electronic mode; 
(c) a notice of not less than twenty one days either in writing or through electronic 
mode shall be provided to the unit holders267[:] 
268[Provided that a meeting of unit holders may be called after giving shorter notice 
than that specified in this  clause if consent, in writing or by electronic mode, is 
accorded thereto - 
i. in case of an annual meeting, by not less than ninety-five percent of the unit 
holders entitled to vote thereat; and  
                                                 
265 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024. Prior to the substitution the words were “votes cast against”. 
266 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024. 
267 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, the symbol was “;”. 
268 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024.

[Page 68]
68 
 
ii. in case of any other meeting, by majority of the unitho lders in number 
entitled to vote thereat and who represent not less than ninety-five percent 
of such part of the units by value as gives a right to vote at the meeting.] 
(d) voting by any person who is a related party in such transaction as well as associates 
of such person(s) shall not be considered on the specific issue; 
(e) manager shall be responsible for all the activities pertaining to conducting of 
meeting of the unit holders, subject to overseeing by the trustee:  
Provided that in respect of issues pertaini ng to the manager such as change in 
manager including removal of the manager or change in control of the manager, 
Trustee shall convene and handle all activities pertaining to conduct of the 
meetings:  
Provided further that in respect of issues pertaining to the trustee such as change in 
the trustee, the trustee shall not be involved in any manner in the conduct of the 
meeting.  
269[(f) for all unit holder meetings, the manager shall provide an option to the unit holders 
to attend the meeting through video conferencing or other audio visual means and 
the option of remote  electronic voting in the manner as may be specified by the 
Board.] 
(3) An annual meeting of all unit holders shall be held not less than once a year within one 
hundred and twenty  days from the end of financial year and the time between two meetings 
shall not exceed fifteen months. 
(4) With respect to the annual meeting of unit holders,- 
(a) any information that is required to be disclosed to the unit holders and any issue 
that, in the ordinary course of business, may require approval of the unit holders 
may be taken up in the meeting including,- 
(i) latest annual accounts and performance of the REIT; 
(ii) approval of auditor and fees of such auditor, as may be required; 
(iii) latest valuation reports; 
(iv) appointment of valuer, as may be required; 
(v) any other issue including special issues as specified under sub -
regulation (6); 
                                                 
269 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real E state Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024.

[Page 69]
69 
 
(b) for any issue taken up in such meetings which require approval from the unit 
holders, votes cast in favour of the resolution shall 270[be more than] 271[fifty per 
cent of the total votes cast for the resolution unless otherwise specified under these 
regulations]. 
(5) In case of,- 
(a) any approval from unit holders required under regulation 18, 19 and 21; 
(b) any transaction, other than any borrowing, value of which is equal to or greater 
than twenty five per cent. of the REIT assets; 
(c) any borrowing in excess of specified limit as required under sub-regulation (2) 
of regulation 20; 
(d) any issue of units after initial offer by the REIT, in whatever form, other than 
any issue of units which may be considered by the Board  under sub -
regulation(6); 
(e) increasing period for compliance  with investment conditions to one year in 
accordance with proviso to sub-regulation (9) of regulation 18; 
(f) any issue, in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the 
sponsor(s) or trustee or manager, is material and requires approval of the  unit 
holders, if any; 
 272[ ***;] 
(g) any issue for which the Board or the designated stock exchange requires 
approval under this sub-regulation, 
 approval from unitholders shall be required where the votes cast in favour of the resolution 
shall be 273[more than] 274[fifty per cent of the total votes cast for] the resolution. 
 (6) In case of ,- 
                                                 
270 Substituted “not be less than one and a half times” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
271 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024  w.e.f 28.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, the words were “the votes cast against the 
resolution”. 
272 Sub-clause (fa) omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second  
Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023. Before the omission, the sub-clause read as under: 
 
“(fa) de-classification of the status of sponsor;” 
273 Substituted “not less than one and half times” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
274 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, the words were “the votes cast against”.

[Page 70]
70 
 
(a) any change in manager including removal of the manager or change in 
control of the manager; 
(b) any material change in investment strategy or any change in the management 
fees of the REIT; 
(c) the sponsor(s) or manager proposing to seek delisting of units of the REIT; 
(d) 275[***]  
(e) any issue, not in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the 
sponsor(s) or manager or trustee requires approval of the unit holders; 
(f) any issue for which the Board or the designated stock exchanges requires 
approval under this sub-regulation; 
(g) any issue taken up on request of the unit holders including: 
(i) removal of the manager and appointment of another manager to the 
REIT; 
(ii) removal of the a uditor and appointment of another auditor to the 
REIT; 
(iii) removal of the valuer and appointment of another valuer to the 
REIT; 
(iv) delisting of the REIT if the unit holders have sufficient reason to 
believe that such delisting would act in the interest of the uni t 
holders; 
(v) any issue which the unit holders have sufficient reason to believe 
that acts detrimental to the interest of the unit holders;  
(vi) change in the trustee if the unit holders have sufficient reason to 
believe that acts of such trustee is detrimental t o the interest of the 
unit holders,  
276[(h) introduction of unit based employee benefit scheme after an initial offer; 
(i) unit based employee benefit scheme proposed at the time of initial offer; 
Explanation. – For any unit based employee benefit scheme proposed at the 
time of initial offer, the manager shall obtain the approval of the unitholders 
                                                 
275 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
16.06.2020. Prior to the omission, the clause read as follows: 
“ (d) the value of the units held by a person along with its associates other than the sponsor(s) and its associates 
exceeding fifty per cent. of the value of outstanding REIT units, prior to acquiring any further units;”  
276 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024.

[Page 71]
71 
 
on such proposed scheme after listing of the REIT and shall ensure that the 
scheme is not implemented until such approval is obtained; 
(j) acquisition of units by the employee benefit trust as specified in sub -
regulation (3) of regulation 17C: 
Provided that approval by way of a separate resolution shall be required in 
case of secondary acquisition and such approval shall mention the percentage 
of secondary acquisition that could be undertaken subject to the limits 
specified under regulation 17D; 
(k) issuance of units to the employee benefit trust as specified in clause (a) of 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 17C; 
(l) transfer of units to the employee benefit trust as specified in clauses (b) and 
(c) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 17C; 
(m) approval by way of a separate resolution shall be required for grant of options 
to identified employees, during any one year, equal to or exceeding one per 
cent. of the unit capital of the REIT at the time of grant of options; 
(n) variation of the terms of the unit based employee benefit scheme including 
repricing of the options;] 
 approval from unit holders shall be required where the vot es cast in favour of the 
resolution shall be 277[at least sixty per cent of total votes cast for] the resolution. 
278[***]  
279[(6A) No person, other than sponsor(s), its related parties and its associates, shall acquire units 
of a REIT which taken together with  units held by him and by persons acting in concert 
with him in such REIT, exceeds twenty -five per cent of the value of outstanding REIT 
units unless approval from seventy five per cent. of the unit holders by value excluding the 
value of units held by parties related to the transaction, is obtained: 
                                                 
277 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024. Prior to the substitution the words were “not less than one and half times the 
votes cast against”. 
278 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
16.06.2020. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as follows: 
“Provided that in case of clause (d), if approval is not obtained, the person shall provide an exit option to the 
unitholders to the extent and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.”  
279 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts ) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
16.06.2020.

[Page 72]
72 
 
 
Provided that if the required approval is not received, the person acquiring the units shall 
provide an exit option to the dissenting unit holders to the extent and in the manner as may 
be specified by the Board] 
(7) With respect to the right(s) of the unit holders under clause (g) of sub-regulation (6),- 
(a) not less than twenty five per cent. of the unit holders by value, other than 
any party related  to the transactions and its associates, shall apply, in 
writing, to the trustee for the purpose;  
(b) on receipt of such application, the Trustee shall require the manager to 
place the issue for voting in the manner as specified in these regulations; 
(c) with respect to sub-clause (vi) of clause (g) of sub-regulation (6) , not less 
than sixty per cent. of the unit holders by value shall apply, in writing, to 
the manager for the purpose. 
(8) In case of any change in sponsor  or 280[inducted] sponsor or change in control of sponsor  
or 281[inducted] sponsor 282[or conversion to Self-Sponsored Manager],- 
(a) 283[prior to such changes, approval from seventy -five per cent of the unit 
holders by value excluding the value of units held by parties related to the 
transaction shall be obtained;] 
(b)  284[ if the required approval is not received],- 
(i) in case of change of sponsor  or 285[inducted] sponsor, the 
proposed 286[inducted] sponsor 287[***] shall provide the 
                                                 
280 Substituted for the word “re -designated” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 16.06.2020. 
281 Substituted for the word “re -designated” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 16.06.2020. 
282 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023. 
283 Substituted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
16.06.2020. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as follows: 
“(a) prior to such changes, approval shall be obtained  from the unit holders wherein votes cast in favour of the 
resolution shall not be less than three times the votes cast against the resolution;”  
284 Substituted for the word s “if such change does not receive the required approval ” by the  Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 
17.08.2023. 
285 Substituted for the word “re -designated” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 16.06.2020. 
286 Substituted for the word “re -designated” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 16.06.2020. 
287 The words “who proposes to buy the units” is  omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 16.06.2020.

[Page 73]
73 
 
dissenting unit holders an option to exit  by buying their units  
288[in the manner specified by the Board]; 
289[(ii)  in case of change in control of the sponsor or inducted sponsor, 
the said sponsor or inducted sponsor shall provide the dissenting 
unit holders an option to exit by buying their units in the manner 
as specified by the Board; 
  Explanation: Change in sponsor or inducted sponsor shall mean 
any change due to entry of a new sponsor 290[ or] exit of an 
existing sponsor.] 
291[(iii) in case of conversion to Self -Sponsored Manager, the Manager 
shall provide the dissenting unit holders an option to exit by buying their 
units in the manner specified by the Board.] 
(c)  if on account of such sale, the number of unit holders forming part of the 
public falls below 292[as required under sub-regulation (2A) of Regulation 
14] two hundred or below 293[ the trustee may provide a period of one year 
to the manager to rectify the same, failing which ], the 294[manager] shall 
apply for delisting of the units of the REIT in accordance with regulation 
17. 
295[(9) The existing sponsor(s) proposing to disassociate as sponsor(s) by seeking to convert 
the Manager to Self-Sponsored Manager shall comply with the following conditions: 
(i) the REIT has been listed for a period of at least five years; 
                                                 
288 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
16.06.2020 
289 Substituted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
16.06.2020. Prior to the substitution, the sub-clause read as follows: 
“(ii) in case of change in control of the sponsor or re -designated sponsor, the sponsor or re -designated sponsor 
shall provide the dissenting unit holders an option to exit by buying their units;” 
290 Substituted for the word s “with or without” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023.  
291 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023. 
292 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
293 Substituted for “twenty five per cent. of the total outstanding units”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
294 Substituted for “trustee” the trustee may provide a period of one year to the manager to rectify the same, failing 
which 
295 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023.

[Page 74]
74 
 
(ii) the REIT has undertaken not less than twelve distributions on a continuous b asis and 
has complied with the distribution norms as per these Regulations in the preceding five 
years; 
(iii) the REIT is rated AAA by a registered credit rating agency for a continuous period of 
five years immediately preceding exit of the sponsor; 
(iv) during the period of preceding five years, the REIT has not breached, at any time, the 
maximum leverage thresholds specified in these regulations; 
(v) the Manager is meeting the net worth criteria for the sponsor as specified in these 
regulations; 
(vi) the minimum unitholding requirement applicable to sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) 
shall be complied with, on or after the date of conversion of the Manager to Self -
Sponsored Manager, by the Manager, shareholders of the Manager and/or group entities 
of Manager: 
Explanation: Manager, shareholders of the Manager and/or group entities of Manager 
may acquire units of the REIT for the purpose of compliance of the above condition. 
(vii) the sponsor(s) or its associate(s) do not own or control the Manager of the REIT on or 
after the date of conversion of the Manager to Self-Sponsored Manager; 
(viii) the Sponsor has not transferred / sold assets to the REIT in the last three years and no 
assets/ projects shall be acquired by the REIT from the outgoing sponsor(s) for a period 
of one year from the date of conversion to Self-Sponsored Manager; 
(ix) at least one of the sponsor(s) proposing to disassociate should have been a sponsor of 
the REIT for a minimum period of five years; 
(x) the REIT shall not have any under -construction properties acquired from the sponsor 
that have not commenced commercial operations; 
(xi) unitholders approval in terms of sub-regulation (8) of this regulation and consent of the 
Trustee has been obtained for conversion to Self-Sponsored Manager; 
(xii) such other condition as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
296[Dispute Resolution. 
22A. (1) All claims, differences or disputes between investors and the manager arising out of 
or in relation to the activities of the manager in the securities market shall be submitted to a 
                                                 
296 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 04-07-2023.

[Page 75]
75 
 
dispute resolution mechanism that includes mediation and/or conciliation and/or arbitration, in 
accordance with the procedure specified by the Board. 
(2) No loss or damage or expenses incurred by the manager or officers of the manager, 
including those in relation to resolution of claims or  disputes of investors, shall be met out of 
the trust property.] 
 
Disclosures. 
23. (1) The manager shall ensure that the disclosures in the offer document are in accordance 
with the Schedule III to these regulations and any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board 
in this regard. 
(2) The manager shall submit an annual report to all unit holders of the REIT with respect to 
activities of the REIT, within three months from the end of the financial year. 
(3) The manager shall submit a half -yearly report to all unit holders of the REIT with respect 
to activities of the REIT within forty five  days from the end of the half year ending  on 
September 30th. 
(4) Such annual and half yearly reports shall contain disclosures as specified under Schedule 
IV to these regulations. 
(5) The manager shall disclose to the designated stock exchanges any information having 
bearing on the operation  or performance of the REIT as well as price sensitive information 
which includes but is not restricted to the following,- 
(a) acquisition or disposal of any properties, value of which exceeds five per cent. of 
value of the REIT assets; 
(b) additional borrowing, at level of 297[holdco or] SPV or the REIT, resulting in such 
borrowing exceeding five per cent. of the value of the REIT assets during the year; 
(c) additional issue of units by the REIT; 
(d) details of any credit rating obtained by the REIT and any change in such rating; 
(e) any issue which requires approval of the unit holders; 
(f) any legal proceedings which may have significant bearing on the functioning of 
the REIT; 
(g) notices and results of meetings of unit holders;  
                                                 
297 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 76]
76 
 
(h) any instance of non -compliance with these regulations including any breach of 
limits specified under these regulations; 
(i) any material issue that in the opinion of the manager or trustee needs to be disclosed 
to the unit holders. 
(6) The manager shall submit such information to the designated stock exchanges and unit 
holders on a periodical basis as may be required under the listing agreement. 
(7) The manager shall disclose to the designated stock exchanges, unit holders and the Board 
such information and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.. 
 
Submission of reports to the Board. 
24. The Board may at any time call upon the REIT or parties to the REIT to file such reports, 
as the Board may desire, with respect to the activities relating to the REIT. 
 
Power to call for information. 
25. (1) The Board may at any time call for any informat ion from the REIT or  298[holdco or 
SPV(s) or] parties to the REIT or any unit holder or any other person with respect to any matter 
relating to activity of the REIT. 
(2) Where any information is called for under sub -regulation (1), it shall be furnished with in 
the time specified by the Board. 
 
Maintenance of records. 
26. (1) The manager shall maintain records pertaining to the activity of the REIT including , 
299[for a period of not less than seven years,]- 
(a) decisions of the manager with respect to investments  or divestments and 
documents supporting the same; 
(b) details of investments made by the REIT and documents supporting the same; 
(c) agreements entered into by the REIT or on behalf of the REIT; 
(d) documents relating to appointment of persons as specified in sub-regulation (5) of 
regulation 10; 
(e) insurance policies for real estate assets; 
(f) investment management agreement; 
                                                 
298 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
299 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 77]
77 
 
(g) documents pertaining to issue and listing of units including initial offer document 
or follow-on offer document(s) or other offer document(s), in-principle approval 
by designated stock exchanges, listing agreement with the designated stock 
exchanges, details of subscriptions, allotment of units, etc.; 
(h) distributions declared and made to the unit holders; 
(i) disclosures and periodical reporting made t o the trustee, Board, unit holders and 
designated stock exchanges including annual reports, half yearly reports, etc.; 
(j) valuation reports including methodology of valuation; 
(k) books of accounts and financial statements; 
(l) audit reports; 
(m) reports relating to acti vities of the REIT placed before the Board of Directors of 
the manager; 
(n) unit holders' grievances and actions taken thereo n including copies of 
correspondences made with the unit holders and the Board, if any; 
(o) any other material documents. 
(2) The trustee shall maintain records pertaining to,- 
(a) certificate of registration granted by the Board;  
(b) registered trust deed; 
(c) documents pertaining to application made to the Board for registration as a REIT; 
(d) titles of the real estate assets: 
Provided that where the original title documents are deposited with the lender in 
respect of any loan / debt, the trustee shall maintain copies of such title documents; 
(e) notices and agenda send to unit holders for meetings held; 
(f) minutes of meetings and resolutions passed therein; 
(g) periodical reports and disclosures received by the trustee from the manager; 
(h) disclosures, periodically or otherwise, made to the Board, unit holders and to the 
designated stock exchanges; 
(i) any other material documents. 
(3) The records specified in 300[sub-regulation (1) and] sub-regulation (2) may be maintained 
in physical or electronic form: 
                                                 
300 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024.

[Page 78]
78 
 
Provided that  where records are required to be duly signed and are maintained in the 
electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed. 
301[(4) The manager and the trustee shall ensure that adequate backup systems, data storage 
capacity, system capacity for secure handling, data transfer and arrangements for 
alternative means of communication in case of internet link failure, are maintained for the 
records maintained electronically.  
(5) The manager and trustee shall ensure that a business continuity plan and disaster recovery 
site is in place for the records maintained electronically, to maintain data and transaction 
integrity.] 
 
302[CHAPTER VIA 
OBLIGATIONS OF THE MANAGER 
 
Application of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
26A. Subject to other provisions of this Chapter, the provisions contained in sub -regulations 
(2), (4), (5), (9) and (10) of regulation 17 and regulations 18, 19, 20, 21, 26 and sub- regulation 
(1), (2), (2A), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (10) and (11) of reg ulation 25 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 shall be applicable, as in force from time to time, with necessary modifications as if the 
said provisions were the provisions of these regulations.  
Explanation - For the purposes of this regulation, unless the context otherwise requires, the 
provisions under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, shall be interpreted as under, –  
(i) the expression “promoters” wherever it occurs, shall be read as “parties to the REIT”; 
(ii) the expression “listed entity” wherever it occurs, shall be read as “Manager”;  
(iii) the expression “company secretary” wherever it occurs, shall be read as “compliance 
officer”; 
(iv) the expression “executive director” wherever it occurs, shall be read as “non -
independent director”; 
                                                 
301 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real  Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024. 
302 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 01.04.2023.

[Page 79]
79 
 
(v) the expression “non -executive director” wherever it occurs, shall be read as 
“independent director” 303[except for the purpose of regulation 19(1) of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 as applicable to the manager under these regulations]; 
(vi) the expression “Board of Directors of the listed entity” wherever it occurs, shall be read 
as “Board of Directors of Manager”; 
(vii) the expression “subsidiary of listed entity” wherever it occurs, shall be read as “HoldCo 
and/or SPV of REIT, as applicable”. 
 
 
Additional Requirements. 
26B. (1) The Board of Directors of the Manager shall comprise of not less than six directors 
and have not less than one woman independent director 304[:] 
305[Provided that if by a vacancy in the office of a director of the manager, the manager becomes 
non-compliant with the requirement, such vacancy shall be filled by the manager as follows - 
A. if such vacancy arises due to expiry of the term of office of the director, then the 
resulting vacancy shall be filled not later than the date such office is vacated; or 
B. if such vacancy arises due to any other reason, then the resulting vacancy shall be 
filled at the earliest and not later than three months from the date of such vacancy.] 
(2) The quorum for every meeting of the Board of Directors of the Manager shall be one-third 
of its total strength or three directors, whichever is higher, including at least one independent 
director. 
Explanation - The participation of the directors by video conferencing or by other audio-visual 
means shall be counted for the purpose of quorum and shall be recorded by the Manager. 
(3) The Board of Directors of the Manager shall review compliance reports every quarter 
pertaining to all laws applicable to the REIT as well as steps taken to rectify instances of non-
compliances. 
(4) The minimum information as specified in Part A of Schedule VIII shall be placed before 
the Board of Directors of the Manager. 
                                                 
303 Inserted by the Securities and Exch ange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
304 Substituted for the symbol “.”, ibid. 
305 Inserted, ibid.

[Page 80]
80 
 
(5) The Compliance Officer,  Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer shall 
provide the compliance certificate to the Board of Directors of the Manager as specified in in 
Part B of Schedule VIII along with supporting evidence thereof. 
(6) The Board of Directors of the Manager shall set forth clearly the recommendation of the 
Manager in the notice to the unitholders fo r each item referred to in sub regulation (6) of 
regulation 22 of these regulations. 
Vigil Mechanism 
26C. (1) The Manager shall formulate a vigil mechanism, including a whistle blower policy 
for directors and employees to report genuine concerns.  
(2) The vigil mechanism shall provide for adequate safeguards against victimization of 
Director(s) or employee(s) or any other person who avail the mechanism and also provide for 
direct access to the chairperson of the audit committee in appropriate or exceptional cases. 
(3) An independent service provider may be engaged by the Manager for providing or operating 
the vigil mechanism who shall report to the audit committee. 
(4) The audit committee shall review the functioning of the vigil mechanism. 
 
Secretarial Compliance Report 
26D. (1) The Manager shall submit a secretarial compliance report given by a practicing 
company secretary to the stock exchanges, in such form as specified , within sixty days from 
end of each financial year.  
(2) The secretarial compliance report referred to in sub -regulation (1) of this regulation shall 
be annexed with the annual report of the REIT. 
 
Quarterly Compliance Report on Corporate governance  
26E. (1) The Manager shall submit a quarterly compliance report on governance in the format 
as may be specified by the Board, to the recognized stock exchange(s) within twenty-one days 
from the end of each quarter. 
(2) The report referred in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall be signed either by the 
compliance officer or the chief executive officer of the Manager.]

[Page 81]
81 
 
306[Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
26F. (1) The Manager shall redress investor grievances promptly but not later than twenty-one 
calendar days from the date of receipt of the grievance and in such manner as may be specified 
by the Board. 
(2) The Board may also recognize a body corporate for handling and monitoring the process of 
grievance redressal within such time and in such manner as may be specified.] 
 
307[CHAPTER VIB 
SMALL AND MEDIUM REITS 
Applicability. 
26G. The provisions of these regulations, except chapters II, IV, V and regulation 22 under chapter 
VI, shall mutatis mutandis be applicable to SM REITs, unless otherwise provided for in this 
chapter: 
Provided that any reference to the “manager” or the “sponsor” of the REIT under the 
applicable provisions of these regulations shall be construed as a reference to an “investment 
manager” of the SM REIT. 
 
Definitions. 
26H. In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall have the 
meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate  expressions shall be construed 
accordingly,– 
(a) “investment manager” means a company incorporated in India, which sets up SM REIT 
and manages assets and investments of the SM REIT and undertakes operational 
activities of the SM REIT; 
308 [(aa) “KIS” means Key Information of the Scheme;  
(ab) “KIT” means Key Information of the Trust;] 
                                                 
306 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance  Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023. 
307 Inserted by the the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 08.03.2024. 
308 Inserted b y the Securities and Exchange Board of Ind ia (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 82]
82 
 
(b) “liquid net worth” means net worth deployed in liquid assets, which are unencumbered. 
309[***]  
(c) “Small and Medium REIT” or “ SM REIT” means a REIT that pools money from 
investors under one or more schemes in accordance with sub-regulation (2) of regulation 
26P; 
(d) “scheme” means a distinct and separate scheme of a n SM REIT launched under this 
chapter for owning of real estate assets or properties through special purpose vehicles; 
(e) “scheme offer document” means any document described or issued as a scheme  offer 
document including any notice,  circular, advertisement or other document inviting 
offers for subscription or purchase of units of a scheme from the public; 
(f) “special purpose vehicle” or “SPV” means any company which  is a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the scheme of the SM REIT and the SPV shall not have any other capital 
or ownership interest in it; 
(g) “trustee” means a trustee registered with the Board under Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993, who holds the assets of SM 
REIT and its schemes in trust and for the benefit of the unit holders, in accordance with 
these regulations. 
 
Registration of SM REIT. 
26I. (1)  An application for grant of certificate of registration as SM REIT shall be made, by the 
investment manager on behalf of the Trust in Form -A as specified in the Schedule IA to 
these regulations and shall be accompanied by a no n-refundable application fee of such 
amount and shall be payable in the manner as specified in Schedule IIA to these regulations. 
(2) The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, appoint any person to 
take charge of records, documents of the SM REIT and for this purpose, also determine the 
terms and conditions of such an appointment. 
(3) The Board shall take into account requirements as specified in these regulations for 
                                                 
309 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024. Prior to omission, it read as under: 
“Explanation. – For the purposes of this chapter, “liquid asset” means cash, units of overnight or liquid mutual 
fund schemes, fixed deposits, government securities, treasury bills and repo on government securities ;”

[Page 83]
83 
 
considering the grant of certificate of registration. 
 
Eligibility criteria. 
26J. (1)  For the purpose of the grant of certificate to the trust, the Board shall consider all 
matters relevant to the activities of the trust as an SM REIT. 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the Board shall 
consider the following, namely,– 
(a) the applicant is the investment manager on behalf of the trust and the instrument of 
trust is in the form of a deed duly registered in India under the provisions of the 
Registration Act, 1908; 
(b) the trust deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of SM REIT through 
one or more schemes in accordance with these regulations and includes 
responsibilities of the trustee in accordance with these regulations;  
(c) separate persons have been designated as investment manager of the SM REIT and 
trustee of the SM REIT under these regulations; 
(d) with regard to the investment manager,–  
(i) the investment manager is clearly identified in the application for grant of 
certificate of registration to the Board and in the scheme offer document;  
(ii) the investment manager has a net worth of not less than rupees twenty crore:  
Provided that not less than rupees ten crores of net worth of the investment 
manager is in the form of positive liquid net worth; 
(iii) the investment manager has at least two years’ experience in the real estate 
industry or real estate fund management: 
Provided that in case the investment manager is unable to meet the above 
requirement, it shall employ at least two key managerial personnel , each of 
whom have not less than f ive years’ experience in the real estate industry or 
real estate fund management; 
(iv) not less than half of the directors of the investment manager are independent 
and are not directors of the manager or investment manager of another REIT

[Page 84]
84 
 
or SM REIT, as the case may be310[:] 311[***]  
312[Provided that if by a vacancy in the office of an independent director of the 
investment manager, the investment manager becomes non-compliant with the 
requirement, such vacancy shall be filled by the investment manager as 
follows: 
A. if such vacancy arises due to expiry of the term of office of the 
independent director, then the resulting vacancy shall be filled not 
later than the date such office is vacated; or  
B. if such vacancy arises due to any other reason, then the resulting 
vacancy shall be filled at the earliest and not later than three months 
from the date of such vacancy.] 
(v) the investment manager has entered into an investment management 
agreement with the trustee , which provides for the responsibilities of the 
investment manager in accordance with these regulations; 
(e) the trustee is not an associate of the investment manager; 
(f) no unit holder of the scheme of the SM REIT enjoys superior voting or any other 
rights over another unit holder in the same scheme and there are no multiple classes 
of units of scheme of the SM REIT; 
(g) the rights of each unitholder in the scheme are pro-rata and pari-passu; 
(h) the applicant has clearly described at the time of application for registration, details 
pertaining to proposed activities of the SM REIT; 
(i) the SM REIT and the parties to the SM REIT are fit and proper persons based on the 
criteria as specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; 
(j) whether any previous application for grant of certificate by the applicant or the 
parties to the SM REIT or their directors, for registration as a REIT or an SM REIT, 
                                                 
310 Substituted for the symbol “;” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
311 Word “and” omitted, ibid.  
312 Inserted, ibid.

[Page 85]
85 
 
has been rejected by the Board; and 
(k) whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory 
authority against the SM REIT or the parties to the SM REIT or their promoters or 
directors under any Act or the regulations or circulars issued thereunder. 
 
Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation. 
26K. (1)  The Board may require the applicant to furnish any information or clarification as 
may be required by it for the purpose of processing of the application for registration. 
(2) The Board, if it so desires, may require the applicant or any authorized representative 
to appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of 
certificate. 
 
Procedure for grant of certificate. 
26L. (1)  The Board, on being satisfied that the trust fulfils  the requirements specified in this 
chapter, shall send an intimation to the trust and on receipt of the payment of registration 
fees as specified in Schedule IIA, grant the certificate of registration in Form B under 
Schedule IA. 
(2) The registration may be granted with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate 
by the Board. 
 
Conditions of certificate. 
26M. (1) The certificate granted under this chapter shall be subject to such conditions as the Board 
may deem appropriate, including, – 
(a) the SM REIT shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations; 
(b) the SM REIT shall adhere to the migration plan, if applicable, submitted by it to 
the Board at the time of application for certificate of registration under this 
chapter; 
(c) the SM REIT shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any in formation or 
particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading

[Page 86]
86 
 
in any material particular or if there is any material change in the information 
already submitted; 
(d) the SM REIT and the parties to the SM REIT shall satisfy the conditions 
specified in this chapter at all times; and 
(e) the SM REIT and the parties to the SM REIT shall comply, at all times, with the 
Code of conduct as specified in the Schedule VI, wherever applicable. 
(2) If the SM REIT fails to make an initial offer of a scheme within three years from the 
date of registration with the Board, it shall surrender its certificate of registration to the Board 
and cease to operate as an SM REIT: 
Provided that the Board, if it deems fit, may extend the period for making an initial offer of 
a scheme, by up to one year: 
Provided further that nothing in this sub -regulation shall prevent the SM REIT from re-
applying for registration. 
 
Migration of existing persons, entities or structures.  
26N. (1) An applicant may apply for registration of existing persons, entities or structures owning 
real estate asset(s) or property(ies) in the nature of SM REIT, as on the date of notification 
of this chapter: 
Provided that the application for registration shall be made within six months from the date 
of notification of this chapter or within such period as may be specified by the Board. 
(2) For migration of such existing persons, entities or structures under these regulations: 
(a) The applicant shall submit details o f existing persons, entities or structures 
proposed to be migrated and a migration plan along with the application for 
certificate of registration; and 
(b) The applicant shall complete the migration of existing persons, entities or 
structures within six months from the date of grant of registration or within such 
period as may be specified by the Board. 
(3) The applicant shall comply with the provisions of this chapter in relation to the 
scheme being migrated, unless otherwise provided for in this chapter.

[Page 87]
87 
 
 
Procedure where registration is refused. 
26O. (1)  After considering an application made under this chapter, if the Board is of the 
opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the trust, it may reject the application after 
giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the 
applicant within thirty days of such decision. 
 
Eligible issuers. 
26P. (1)  An SM REIT shall not be eligible to make an initial offer of units of a scheme if: 
(a) the SM REIT or the parties to the SM REIT are debarred from accessing the 
securities market or dealing in securities by the Board; 
(b) any of the promoters, promoter group or directors of the parties to the SM 
REIT are debarred from accessing the securities market or dealing in 
securities by the Board;  
(c) any of the promoters or directors of the parties to the SM REIT is a promoter 
or director of anot her company which is debarred from accessing the 
securities market by the Board; 
(d) the SM REIT or the parties to the SM REIT or any of the promoters or 
directors of the parties to the SM REIT are wilful defaulters; 
(e) any of the promoters or whole-time directors of the parties to the SM REIT is 
a promoter or whole-time director of another  company which is a wilful 
defaulter;  
(f) any of the promoters or directors of the parties to the SM REIT is a fugitive 
economic offender; or 
(g) any fine or penalties levied by the Board or stock exchanges is pending to be 
paid by the SM REIT at the time of filing the scheme offer document: 
Provided that nothing in clauses (a), (b) and (c) shall be applicable if the 
period of debarment is over as on the date of filing of the sc heme offer

[Page 88]
88 
 
document with the Board and the designated stock exchange: 
Provided further that nothing in clause (c) shall be applicable to a person who 
was appointed as a director only by virtue of nomination by  a debenture 
trustee in other company. 
(2)  No offer of units by a scheme of the SM REIT shall be made unless,– 
(a) the size of the asset proposed to be acquired in a scheme of the SM REIT is 
at least rupees fifty crores and less than rupees five hundred crores; and 
313[Explanation: ─ The requirement of ownership of assets may be complied at  any 
point of time before allotment  of units in accordance with the scheme offer 
document, subject to the following: 
(a) there is a binding agreement with the relevant party(ies) that such requirements 
shall be fulfilled prior to such allotment of units; and 
(b) a declaration to the Board and to the designated stock exchanges to that effect 
and adequate disclosures are made in this regard in the scheme offer document.] 
(b) the minimum number of unitholders of the scheme of the SM REIT other 
than the investment manager, its related parties and associates of the SM 
REIT are not less than  two hundred investors: 
Provided that nothing in this sub -regulation shall be applicable to the 
migration of existing persons, entities or structure s as on the date of this 
chapter coming into force which are included as part of the migration plan in 
case the applicant is applying for a certifica te of registration under sub -
regulation (1) of regulation 26N. 
 
Appointment of merchant banker. 
26Q. The investment manager shall appoint one or more merchant banker s registered with the 
Board to carry out the obligations relating to the issue. 
                                                 
313 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Inves tment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 89]
89 
 
 
Conditions for initial offer. 
26R. (1)  The investment manager shall identify the real estate assets or properties it proposes 
to acquire or provide the features of the real estate assets or properties including location or 
such other details for the particular scheme in the draft scheme offer document. 
314[(1A)    A scheme of SM REIT shall make an initial offer of its units by way of public issue 
only and in the manner as may be specified by the Board. 
(1B)     The initial offer shall be made by the scheme of SM REIT within a period of not 
more than one year from the date of issuance of observations by the Board: 
 Provided that if the initial offer is not made within the specified time period, a fresh draft 
scheme offer document shall be filed. 
(1C)     The minimum subscription amount shall be 90 per cent. of the fresh issue size as 
specified in the KIS in case of a scheme of SM REIT which opts to utilize leverage in 
accordance with these Regulations. 
(1D)     The minimum subscription amount shall be 100 per cent. of the fresh issue size as 
specified in the KIS in case of a scheme of SM REIT which does not opt to ut ilize leverage 
in accordance with these Regulations. 
(1E)      The amount for general purposes, including the issue expenses, the legal expenses 
and other eligible expenses, as the Board may specify, as mentioned in objects of the offer 
in the KIS filed with the Board, shall not exceed such amount as the Board may specify from 
time to time. 
   (1F)     The investment manager shall deposit the amount to comply with the minimum 
unitholding requirement specified in sub -regulation (1) of regulation 26ZB of these 
regulations in a cash escrow bank account, two working days prior to the opening of the 
offer and the allotment of such units to the investment manager shall be a part of the asset 
acquisition transaction.] 
                                                 
314 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 90]
90 
 
(2) The investment manager shall , through a merchant banker, file the draft scheme offer 
document with the Board, along with fees specified in Schedule IIA and with the designated 
stock exchange. 
 315[(2A) The scheme offer document shall consist of KIT and KIS. 
  (2B) The investment manager shall file a single draft KIT, common for all schemes, with the 
Board along with draft KIS at the time of initial offer of the first scheme of the SM REIT 
and the Board may issue observations on the draft KIT and the draft KIS.  
(2C) For subsequent scheme offer documents, processing of KIT and KIS shall be done in 
the following manner ─ 
(i) if there is no change in the KIT vis -à-vis the KIT filed with the Board as part of 
previous scheme offer document and the investment manage r has submitted a 
declaration in this regard, then the KIT shall be filed by the investment manager with 
the Board only for records along with draft KIS of subsequent schemes and the Board 
may issue observations only on the draft KIS; or 
(ii) if there is any change in the draft KIT vis-à-vis the KIT filed with the Board as part 
of previous scheme offer document, then the investment manager shall file the draft 
KIT along with the draft KIS of subsequent schemes with the Board and the Board 
may issue observations on the draft KIT as well as on the draft KIS.]  
(3) The minimum price of each unit of the scheme of the SM REIT shall be rupees ten lakhs 
or such other amount as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
316[(3A) The price of units of the scheme of SM REIT issued by way of public issue shall be 
determined through the book building process or any other process in accordance with the 
circulars or guidelines issued by the Board and in the manner a s may be specified by the 
Board.] 
(4) Each scheme of the SM REIT shall be identified by a separate name, which shall not be 
misleading and shall not portray any guaranteed returns to the investors. 
(5) The value of real estate assets or properties in each scheme shall be at least fifty crore 
rupees.  
                                                 
315 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
316 Inserted, ibid.

[Page 91]
91 
 
(6) The investment manager and the trustee shall ensure that the assets of each scheme, the 
bank accounts, investment or demat accounts and the books of accounts of each scheme are 
segregated and ring-fenced. 
(7) The investment manager and the trustee shall ensure that the property  documents 
evidencing the title to the real estate assets or properties along with the related papers shall 
be duly maintained in safe-deposit boxes, at a scheduled commercial bank and be annually 
inspected by the trustee. 
(8) The draft scheme offer document f iled with the Board shall be made public, for 
comments, if any, by hosting it on the websites of the Board, designated stock exchanges 
and merchant bankers associated with the issue, for a period of not less than twenty -one 
days. 
(9) The Board may issue observ ations, if any, to the merchant banker within thirty days 
from the later of: 
(a) the date of receipt of the draft scheme offer document;  
(b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the merchant banker, where the Board 
has sought any clarification or additional information from the merchant banker;  
(c) the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where 
the Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; 
or 
(d) the date of receipt of a copy of in -principle approval letter issued by the designated 
stock exchange(s). 
(10) The merchant banker shall ensure that the observations issued by  the Board are 
addressed in the scheme offer document prior to launch of the scheme. 
317[(11) The Board may specify, by issuance of guidelines or circulars, any other requirements, 
as it deems fit, pertaining to the issue and allotment of units by a scheme of SM REIT. 
 (12) The Board and the designated stock exchanges may specify any other requirements 
pertaining to listing and trading of units of the scheme of SM REIT by issuance of guidelines 
or circulars. 
                                                 
317 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025

[Page 92]
92 
 
(13)  The investment manager shall ensure that the issue proceeds shall be used only for the 
acquisition of assets as disclosed in the scheme offer document:  
 Provided that in case the SM REIT is unable to acquire one or more assets proposed to be 
acquired as disclosed in the scheme offer document, then the entire amount raised from the 
offer should be refunded to the investors in such manner and within such time as may be 
specified by the Board.] 
 
Disclosure in scheme offer document. 
26S. (1)  The scheme offer document shall make all disclosures as specified in 318[Schedule 
IIIA] and any other disclosures as specified by the Board from time to time. 
(2) The scheme offer document of the SM REIT shall contain material, true, correct and 
adequate disclosures to enable the investors to make an informed decision.  
(3) The disclosures in the scheme offer document shall not be misleading and not contain 
any untrue statements or mis-statements. 
(4) The sch eme offer document shall not provide for any guaranteed returns to the 
investors. 
(5) The scheme offer document shall disclose lease rental income  for each property  
proposed to be acquired by the scheme of the SM REIT along with comparable lease rental 
income of other similar properties.  
(6) The comparable disclosures specified in sub-regulation (5) of this regulation shall be 
sourced from or certified by a valuer or any other persons as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time. 
(7) The scheme offer document shall state whether the scheme of SM REIT is with 
leverage or without leverage in accordance with sub-regulation (2) of regulation 26U.  
(8) In case of a scheme of SM REIT with no leverage, the investment manager shall, at 
the time of filing of the scheme offer document, submit an undertaking that the particular 
scheme shall not utilize any leverage in future. 
                                                 
318 Substituted for “Schedule III” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 93]
93 
 
(9) The scheme offer document shall disclose the total expense ratio for scheme of SM 
REIT in such form and manner and subject to such limits as may be specified by Board from 
time to time. 
  319[(10)    The investment manager shall ensure that all material changes, including the litigation 
and regulatory actions, in the KIT are made on an ongoing basis by way of an addendum 
which shall be disclosed on the website  of SM REIT and  shall file the addendum with the 
Board and the stock exchange(s) within seven days from the date of occurrence of the material 
event. 
  (11)    The investment manager shall ─  
(a) ensure that KIT is updated every six months; 
(b) ensure that updated KIT is disclosed on the website of SM REIT within thirty days 
from the end of half year; and  
(c) file updated KIT with the Board and the stock exchanges for records within thirty 
days from the end of half year. 
 (12)    The Board may specify additional instr uctions and disclosure requirement, if any, for 
facilitating automated supervision and automated processing of data disclosed by the SM 
REIT schemes and the investment manager as part of continuous disclosure requirements.] 
 
Investment conditions. 
26T. (1)  The SPV shall directly and solely own all assets that are acquired or proposed to be 
acquired by the scheme of the SM REIT, of which SPV is the wholly owned subsidiary. 
(2)  The scheme of the SM REIT shall invest at least ninety-five per cent. of the value of 
the schemes’ assets for each of its schemes in completed and revenue generating properties  
and shall not invest in under-construction or non-revenue generating real estate assets.  
Provided that up to five per  cent. of the value of the schemes’ assets may  be invested in 
liquid assets, which are unencumbered320[:] 
                                                 
319 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Re al Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
  
320 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025

[Page 94]
94 
 
321[Provided further that up to five per cent. of the value of the schemes’ assets may be 
invested in interest rate derivatives including interest rate futures, forward rate contract and 
interest rate swap, subject to the conditions as specified in clause (j) of sub-regulation (5) of 
regulation 18 of these regulations.] 
322[(2A) The investment conditions specified in sub -regulation (2) of this regulation shall be 
monitored on a half-yearly basis and at the time of acquisition of an asset:  
Provided that if such conditions are breached on account of market movements of the price 
of the underlying assets or securities or change in tenants or expiry of lease or sale of 
properties, the investment manager shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure that the 
conditions as specified in sub-regulation (2) of this regulation are satisfied within six months 
of such breach:  
Provided further that the period may be extended by another six months subject to the 
approval from the unitholders in accorda nce with clause (e) of sub -regulation (9) of 
regulation 26ZM of these regulations: 
Provided further that if such conditions as specified in sub -regulation (2) of this regulation 
are not satisfied within the permissible timeline, including extension of time line approved 
by the unitholders, then the following shall be applicable ─ 
(i) the investment manager of SM REIT shall not float any new scheme of the SM 
REIT; 
(ii) the promoters, directors and key managerial personnel of the investment 
manager shall be de barred from setting up another SM REIT or associate with 
any other SM REIT or float any new scheme of such other SM REIT; 
(iii)  the investment manager shall apply for delisting of the scheme of SM REIT; 
and 
(iv)  any other measures as may be specified by the Board.] 
(3) The scheme of SM REIT shall not be permitted to lend to any entity other than 
lending to its own SPV. 
(4) The SPV shall not be permitted to lend to any entity. 
                                                 
321 Inserted, ibid.  
322 Inserted, ibid.

[Page 95]
95 
 
  
Modes of fund raising. 
26U.  (1)  The scheme of the SM REIT may raise funds from any investor whether Indian, or 
foreign by way of issuance of units: 
Provided that investment by foreign investors sha ll be subject to the guidelines as may be 
specified by Reserve Bank of India and the Government of India from time to time. 
(2) The scheme of a SM REIT and the SPV(s) thereunder may undertake leverage if the 
option to undertake leverage is disclosed in the scheme offer document filed for initial offer. 
(3) With regard to modes of fund raising by a scheme of SM REIT, the following shall 
apply: 
(a) The scheme of the SM REIT shall raise capital only by way of issuance of units 
pertaining to the particular scheme. 
(b) For a scheme of SM REIT opting to utilize leverage in accordance with sub -
regulation (2), the scheme may undertake leverage through borrowings o r 
issuance of debt securities under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021. 
(4) With regard to modes of fund raising by a SPV of a scheme of SM REIT, the 
following shall apply: 
(a) The SPV shall r aise capital only from equity investment  from the scheme of SM 
REIT. 
(b) The SPV may raise funds by way of borrowings from the scheme of SM REIT. 
(c) For a scheme of SM REIT opting to utilize leverage  in accordance with sub -
regulation (2), the SPV(s) under such sc heme may undertake leverage through 
external borrowings or issuance of debt securities under Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021. 
(5) For a scheme of SM REIT opting to utilize leverage  in accordance with sub -
regulation (2), the total borrowings and deferred payments net of cash and cash equivalents, 
at the scheme level, shall not exceed forty nine per cent. of the value of the scheme assets:

[Page 96]
96 
 
Provided that if the total borrowings and deferred payments net of cash and cash equivalents, 
at the scheme level, exceeds twenty five per cent. of the value of the scheme assets, then for 
any further borrowings, - 
(a) 323[issuer credit rating of the scheme  of SM REIT] shall  be  obtained  from  a  cred it  
rating  agency  registered with  the Board; and 
(b) approval of unit holders shall be obtained in the manner as specified in regulation 
26ZM. 
324[Explanation 1. ─ Borrowings and deferred payments shall not include any refundable security 
deposits received from tenants and the refundable security deposits from tenants shall be 
invested in liquid assets as defined in regulation 2(1)(ta) of these regulations. 
Explanation 2. ─ Investment by a scheme of SM REIT in overnight mutual funds, 
characterized by their investments in overnight securities, having maturity of one day, shall 
be considered as cash and cash equivalent.” 
Explanation 3. ─ The amount of cash and cash equivalent shall be excluded from the value of 
the assets of the scheme of SM REIT. 
(6)    If the leverage limit specified in sub -regulation (5) of this regulation is breached on 
account of decline in the price of the underlying assets or securities, the investment manager 
shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in sub-regulation 
(5) of this regulation are satisfied within six months of such breach.] 
Maintenance of website. 
26V. (1)  The investment manager shall , at all times , maintain a functioning website of SM 
REIT. 
(2)  The investment manager shall specify on the website, the details of all the schemes 
of the SM REIT and details of the real estate assets and properties proposed to be acquired 
or acquired and held  under each scheme , and such other details as may be specifi ed from 
time to time by the Board. 
                                                 
323 Substituted for the words “credit rating”  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
324 Inserted, ibid.

[Page 97]
97 
 
(3) The investment manager shall provide the link to the scheme offer document for the 
investors on the website of the SM REIT. 
(4)  The investment manager shall ensure that the trademark, brand name, website and 
other medium of communication of the SM REIT are used exclusively for the activities of 
SM REIT and no links or information about any other entity, structure or person shall be 
made available on its website or on any other medium of communication. 
 
Issue period. 
26W. The issue period shall not be more than thirty days. 
 
Dematerialization. 
26X. (1) The SM REIT shall issue units of its scheme only in dematerialized form. 
(2)  The investments of scheme of the SM REIT in SPV(s) shall be held in 
dematerialized form. 
 
Subscriptions from investors. 
26Y. (1)  The investment manager of the SM REIT shall use the 325[***] platform of 
designated stock exchange to accept bids from investors for units of the scheme of the SM 
REIT, where the amount shall be blocked through the Application Supported by Blocked 
Amount mechanism. 
(2) The investment manager of the SM REIT shall provide the web -link of the 
platform of the designated stock exchange for subscription of units of the scheme of the SM 
REIT, on the website of SM REIT.  
(3)  The minimum subscription amount from any investor in any offer shall be rupees 
ten lakhs or such amount as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
                                                 
325 Words “book building” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 98]
98 
 
 
Advertisements. 
26Z. (1)  The SM REIT may issue an advertisement pertaining to the issue of units of a  
scheme. 
(2) The public communication including advertisement, publicity material, research reports, 
etc. concerned with the issue shall not be misleading and shall not contain any matter 
extraneous to the contents of the scheme offer document. 
Explanation. – Public communication includes corporate, project and issue related 
advertisements of the SM REIT, interviews, blogs, and social media posts by its investment 
manager and its trustee, directors of any of the parties to the SM REIT, duly authorized 
employees or representatives of the SM REIT or its investment manager, documentaries 
about the SM REIT or its investment manager, periodical reports, press releases, etc. 
(3)  The investment manager shall, on behalf of the SM REIT, make prompt, true and fair 
disclosure of all such developments taking place between the date of filing scheme offer 
document with the Board and the date of allotment of units, which may have a material effect 
on the scheme of the SM REIT, by issuing public notices on the website  of the SM REIT 
and designated stock exchanges and in all the newspapers in which the pre -issue 
advertisement was released. 
(4)  In respect of all public communications, the investment manager on behalf of the 
scheme of the SM REIT shall obtain approval fr om the merchant bankers responsible for 
marketing the issue. 
(5)  Each public communication shall, – 
(a) be truthful, fair and shall not be manipulative or deceptive or distorted; 
(b) not contain any statement or promise which is untrue or misleading; 
(c) reproduce all information in full and disclose all relevant facts relating to any 
information contained in an scheme offer document and not be restricted to select 
extracts; 
(d) be set forth in a clear, concise and understandable language; 
(e) not include any issue slogans or brand names for the issue except the normal 
commercial name of the investment manager;

[Page 99]
99 
 
(f) not use extensive technical, legal terminology or complex language and excessive 
details which may distract the investor; 
(g) not contain statements which promise or guarantee rapid increase in profits, yield 
or returns; 
(h) not display models, celebrities, fictional characters, landmarks or caricatures or 
the likes; 
(i) not appear in the form of crawlers i.e., the advertisements which run 
simultaneously with the programme in a narrow strip at the bottom of the 
television screen, on television; 
(j) not scroll the risk factors on the television screen in any issue advertisement on 
television screen, and the advertisement shall advise the viewers to refer to the 
scheme offer document for details; 
(k) not contain expletives or non-factual and unsubstantiated titles; and 
(l) state the risk factors with equal importance in all respects including print size of 
not less than point seven size, if the advertisement contains highlights. 
(6)  No such pu blic communication issued during the issue period shall give any 
impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed. 
(7)  No such public communication shall contain any offer of incentives, whether direct 
or indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise. 
326[(8) The advertisements shall be in accordance with the scheme offer document and any 
circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this regard.] 
 
Prohibition on payment of incentives. 
26ZA. No person connected with the issue of units of the scheme of the SM REIT shall offer 
any incentive, whether direct or indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services 
or otherwise to any person for making an application in the issue, except for fe es or 
commission for services rendered in relation to the issue. 
                                                 
326 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 100]
100 
 
 
Lock-in requirements. 
26ZB. (1)  The minimum unitholding requirement applicable to the investment manager 
for the period of first three years commencing from the date of listing of units in the initial 
offer till the end of the third year from the date of listing of units in the initial offer, shall be 
as under: 
(a) in a scheme of the SM REIT which has opted not to undertake leverage as per 
disclosures in the scheme offer document filed for initial offer, the investment manager 
shall hold at least five per cent. of the total outstanding units at all times;  
(b) in a scheme of the SM REIT which has opted to undertake leverage as per disclosures 
in the scheme offer document filed for initial offer,  the investment manager shall hold 
at least fifteen per cent. of the total outstanding units at all times: 
Provided that any holding in excess of fifteen per cent. or five per cent., as the case may be, 
shall be held by the investment manager for a period of at least one year from the date of 
listing of units issued in the initial offer. 
(2) The investment manager shall hold at least five per cent. of the total outstanding units 
in each scheme of the SM REIT, at all times, for a period of two years commencing from 
the fourth year of the date of listing of units in the initial offer till the end of fifth year from 
the date of listing of units issued in the initial offer. 
(3) The investment manager shall hold at least three per cent. of the total outstanding 
units in each scheme of the SM REIT, at all times, for a period of five years commencing 
from the sixth year of the date of listing of units in the initial offer till the end of tenth year 
from the date of listing of units issued in the initial offer. 
(4) The investment manager shall hold at least two per cent. of the total outstanding units 
in each scheme of the SM REIT, at all times, for a period of ten years commencing from the 
eleventh year of the date of listing of units in the initial offer till the end of twentieth year 
from the date of listing of units issued in the initial offer. 
(5) The investment manager shall hold at least one per cent. of the total outstanding units 
in each scheme of the SM REIT, at all times, after the completion of twentieth year from the 
date of listing of units issued in the initial offer. 
(6) The units in which holding is required to be maintained under this regulation shall

[Page 101]
101 
 
be unencumbered and locked-in. 
(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, the units issued to investors 
against swap of securities  allotted prior to the date of this chapter coming into force  by an 
SM REIT that has received a certificate of registration pursuant to an application made under 
sub-regulation ( 1) of regulation 26N,  shall not be considered for calculating the total 
outstanding units of the schemes of the SM REIT under this regulation. 
 
Allotment procedure and basis of allotment. 
26ZC. (1) On receipt of the sum payable on application, the investment manager shall, on 
behalf of the scheme of the SM REIT, allot the units to the applicants. 
327[(1A) In case of oversubscription, the scheme of SM REIT shall not make any allotment in 
excess of the units offered through the scheme offer document and the allotment of units to 
each category of investors shall not be less than the minimum bid lot, and the remaining 
available units, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis (to be selected by a lottery): 
Provided that in case of oversubscription, an allotment of not more than one per cent. of the 
net offer to public may be made for the purpose of making allotment in minimum lots.] 
(2) The authorized representatives of the designated stock exchange along with the post issue 
merchant bankers and registrars to the issue of the scheme of the SM REIT shall ensure that 
the basis of allotment is finalized in a fair and proper manner. 
 
Allotment and listing. 
26ZD. (1)  The units of the scheme of the SM REIT shall be mandatorily listed on the 
recognized stock exchange(s) having nationwide trading terminals. 
(2) The units of the SM REIT of the particular scheme shall be allotted and listed with such 
timelines as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that if the investment manager fails to allot or list units within the specified 
timelines, the investment manager shall pay interest to investors at the rate of fifteen per cent. 
                                                 
327 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 102]
102 
 
per annum and such interest shall not be recovered in the form of f ees or any other form 
payable to the investment manager by the SM REIT.  
(3) The listing of the units of the scheme of the SM REIT shall be in accordance with the 
listing agreement entered into between the SM REIT and the designated stock exchange.  
(4) The units of the scheme of the SM REIT listed in designated stock exchanges shall be 
traded, cleared and settled in accordance with the bye-laws of concerned stock exchanges and 
such conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
(5) No person, other than investment manag er, its related parties and its associates, shall 
hold units of a scheme of the SM REIT which taken together with units held by him and by 
persons acting in concert with him in such  scheme of the SM REIT, exceed twenty-five per 
cent of the total outstanding units of such scheme of the SM REIT. 
328[(6)  Any person other than the investment manager holding units of the scheme of SM REIT 
prior to initial offer shall hold the units for a period of not less than one year from the date of 
listing of the units, subject to circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
Filing of post issue report. 
26ZE. The merchant banker shall submit post -issue report , along with due diligence 
certificate, within seven working days of the date of finalization of allotment or within seven 
working days of refund of money in case of failure of issue , as per the format and in such 
manner as may be specified by the Board. 
 
Minimum public unitholding. 
26ZF. (1) The minimum offer and allotment to the public in each scheme of SM REIT 
shall be at least twenty-five per cent. of the total outstanding units of such scheme. 
(2) The minimum public holding for the units of each scheme of SM REIT shall be in 
accordance with sub-regulation (1), failing which action may be taken as may be specified 
by the Board and by the designated stock exchange including delisting of units under 
                                                 
328 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 103]
103 
 
regulation 26ZI. 
 
Maintenance of books and records on book building process. 
26ZG. (1)  The merchant bank er shall maintain a  final book of demand showing the 
result of the allocation process. 
(2)  The me rchant banker(s) and other intermediaries associated in the book building 
process shall maintain records of the book building process. 
(3)  The Board  may inspect the records, books and documents relating to the book 
building process and the merchant banker and other intermediaries  shall extend full co -
operation. 
 
Other obligations of post-issue merchant banker. 
26ZH. (1)  The obligations of the post -issue merchan t banker(s) with respect to all 
matters relating to post-issue, including refund, allotment, payment of interest to applicants 
in case of delayed allotment  or refund, shall be as per the disclosure in the scheme offer 
document. 
(2)  The post -issue merchant  banker(s) shall regularly monitor redressal of investor 
grievances relating to post -issue activities such as allotment, refund, etc.  in such manner as 
may be specified by the Board. 
(3)  The post -issue merchant banker(s) shall ensure that advertisement gi ving details 
relating to oversubscription, basis of allotment, number, value and percentage of all 
applications, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications, date 
of completion of dispatch of refund orders or instructions to S elf-Certified Syndicate Banks 
by the Registrar, date of dispatch of certificates and date of filing of listing application, etc. 
is released within ten days from the date of completion of the post-issue activities on the 
websites of the SM REIT and designated stock exchanges, and in all the newspapers in which 
the pre-issue advertisement was released, if applicable. 
(4) The post-issue merchant banker(s) shall ensure that SM REIT, its advisors and brokers, 
and other persons connected with the issue do not publish any advertisement stating that issue 
has been oversubscribed or indicating investors’ response to the issue, during the period when

[Page 104]
104 
 
the public issue is still open for subscription by the public. 
(5)  The post -issue merchant banker(s) shall continue to be responsible for post -issue 
activities till the subscribers have received credit to their demat account or refund of 
application moneys and the listing agreement is entered into by the SM REIT with the 
designated stock exchange and listing or trading permission is obtained. 
 
Delisting of units 
26ZI. (1) The investment manager shall  apply for delisting of units of  the scheme of the 
SM REIT to the Board and the designated stock exchanges if, –  
(a) the per cent. of units held by the public in the scheme of the SM REIT falls below 
the limits specified under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 26ZF; 
(b) there are no projects or assets remaining under the scheme of the SM REIT for a 
period exceeding six months: 
 Provided that the period may be extended by further six months, with the approval 
of unitholders in the manner as specified in regulation 26ZM; 
(c) the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for violation of 
the listing agreeme nt or these regulations or the Act or in the interest of the unit 
holders; 
(d) the investment manager and trustee requests such delisting and such request has been 
approved by unit holders in accordance with sub-regulation (10) of regulation 26ZM; 
(e) unit holders apply for such delisting in accordance with regulation 26ZM. 
(2)  The Board and the designated stock exchanges may consider such an application for 
approval or rejection, as may be appropriate, in the interest of the unit holders. 
(3)  Notwithstanding anything in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, t he Board, instead of 
requiring delisting of the units, if it deems fit, may provide additional time to the SM REIT or 
parties to the SM REIT to comply with regulations. 
(4)  The Board may reject the application for delisting and take any other action, as it deems 
fit, under these regulations or the Act for violation of the listing agreement or these regulations 
or the Act.

[Page 105]
105 
 
(5)  The procedure for delisting of units of scheme of the SM REIT including provisi on of 
exit option to the unit holders shall be in accordance with the listing agreement and in 
accordance with procedure as may be specified by the Board and by the designated stock 
exchanges from time to time. 
(6)  The investment manager of scheme of the SM REIT shall sell the assets of the scheme in 
order to redeem the units of the unitholders for the purpose of delisting of units of the scheme 
of the SM REIT and shall wind up the scheme of the SM REIT, in such manner as may be 
specified by the Board. 
(7) If all schemes of SM REIT are delisted, the SM REIT shall surrender its certificate of 
registration to the Board and shall no longer undertake activity of a SM REIT:  
Provided that the SM REIT and parties to the SM REIT shall continue to be liable for all their 
acts of omissions and commissions committed prior to the surrender of the certification, with 
respect to activities of the SM REIT or its schemes notwithstanding such surrender. 
 
Valuation of assets. 
26ZJ. (1)  The investment manager shall ensure that valuer shall carry out the full 
comprehensive valuation of the assets of each scheme of the SM REIT on an annual basis, 
and submits its report to the investment manager within two months from the end of the 
financial year: 
Provided that in case of any material development that may have an impact on the valuation 
of the assets of the scheme of the SM REIT, the investment manager shall require the valuer 
to undertake full comprehensive valuation of the property under c onsideration within two 
months from the date of such event. 
(2) The investment manager shall ensure that the valuer is not an associate of the investment 
manager or trustee of the SM REIT and that the signatory to the valuation reports has at least 
five years of experience in valuation of real estate, and possess es such other qualifications, 
experience and track-record that the Board may specify from time to time.  
(3) The investment manager shall ensure that the valuer, for the purposes of the valuation, 
undertakes a full comprehensive valuation of all assets , which shall also include physical 
inspection of each property of the scheme.

[Page 106]
106 
 
(4) The investment manager shall ensur e that valuer, in its full valuation report, includes 
the disclosures as specified in Schedule V to these regulations. 
(5) The net asset value of each scheme shall be required to be declared and disclosed to the 
recognized stock exchanges based on the latest v aluation report as on March 31 st and upon 
occurrence of any material development. 
(6) The investment manager shall submit the valuation reports to the trustee, designated 
stock exchanges and unit holders within one working day from the receipt of such valuation 
reports. 
(7) Prior to any issue of units to the public and any other issue of units in the scheme as may 
be specified by the Board, the investment manager shall require the valuer to undertake full 
valuation of the particular scheme of SM REIT assets and include a summary of the report 
in the scheme offer document: 
Provided that such valuation report shall not be more than six months old at the time of such 
offer and no material changes have occurred thereafter.  
(8) The investment manager shall ensure that n o va luer undertake s valuation of the 
properties of the schemes of the SM REIT for more than four years consecutively: 
Provided that the valuer may be reappointed after a period of not less than two years has 
elapsed from the date it ceases to be the valuer of the SM REIT. 
(9) For any purchase of a new property or sale of an existing property,  the investment 
manager shall require the valuer to undertake a full comprehensive valuation of that property.  
(10) The investment manager shall ensure that the valuer does not value any assets, which it 
has valued within the preceding twelve months prior to the acquisition of the asset by the 
scheme of the SM REIT. 
Explanation.– For the purposes of this sub -regulation, it is hereby clarified that nothing in 
this sub -regulation s hall apply if the valuer had been engaged by the SM REIT for the 
acquisition or disposal of the asset that is to be valued.  
 
Distributions. 
26ZK. (1)  With respect to distributions made by the scheme of SM REIT and  SPV, the 
investment manager shall ensure, –

[Page 107]
107 
 
(a) not less than ninety -five per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the SPV are 
distributed to the scheme of SM REIT subject to applicable provisions in the 
Companies Act, 2013: 
 Provided that the amount retained by the SPV shall be utilized only in such manner as 
may be specified by the Board from time to time; 
(b) hundred per cent. of the net distributable cash flows of the scheme of SM REIT shall 
be distributed to the unit holders; 
(c) the distributions are declared at least once in every quarter of the financial year and 
not later than fifteen working days from the end of the quarter; 
(d) the distributions are paid to the unitholders within 329[five working days from the 
record date].  
330[Explanation. — For the purpose of above clause, record date for the payment  of 
distribution shall be the date which is two working days from the date of the declaration 
of distribution (excluding the date of declaration and the record date).] 
(2)  If the investment manager fails to make payment within the said timelines, then the 
investment manager shall pay interest at the rate of fifteen per  cent. per annum  to the 
unitholders, for the delayed period and such excess interest shall not be recovered by the 
investment manager from the SM REIT in any form. 
331[(3) Any amount remaining unclaimed or unpaid out of the distributions declared by a scheme 
of SM REIT, shall be transferred to the ‘Investor Protection and Education Fund’ constituted 
by the Board in terms of section 11 of the Act, in such manner as may be specified by the 
Board: 
Provided that the amount transferred to Investor Protection and Education Fund shall not 
bear any interest. 
(4) The unclaimed or unpaid amount of a person that has been transferred to the Investor 
                                                 
329 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024. Prior to the substitution the words were  “seven working days of such 
declaration”. 
330 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024. 
331 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 108]
108 
 
Protection and Education Fund in terms of sub-regulation (3) of this regulation , may be 
claimed in such manner as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
Related party transactions. 
26ZL. The SM REITs shall not enter into any transaction with related parties inclu ding 
transactions for facility management and property management: 
Provided that nothing in this regulation shall apply to payment of fees by the SM REIT to 
the investment manager and the trustee for carrying on the activities of the REIT. 
 
Rights and meetings of unit holders. 
26ZM. (1)  The unitholders of the scheme shall have the right to receive distributions as 
provided for in the scheme offer document, subject to the provisions of this chapter. 
(2) With respect to any matter requiring approval of the unit holders, – 
(a) a resolution shall be considered as passed when the votes cast by unit holders, so 
entitled and voting, in favour of the resolution exceed a certain percentage or 
criteria as specified in these regulations; 
332[(aa)  the voting threshold specified under these regulations shall be calculated on the 
basis of unit holders present and voting.  
Explanation. — The unit holders voting through the electronic voting facility and 
postal ballot shall be counted for the determination  of u nit holders present and 
voting;] 
 
(b) the unitholders of the scheme shall have the right to vote in any unitholders’ 
meeting of that particular scheme of SM REIT; 
(c) in case the scheme of the SM REIT proposes to purchase a property or proposes 
to sell a property at a value which is greater than one hundred and five per cent. 
or less than ninety five per cent. of the value of property as assessed by the valuer 
respectively, approval from unitholders shall be required wherein votes cast in 
favour of the resolut ion shall be at least three times the number of votes cast, 
                                                 
332 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024.

[Page 109]
109 
 
against the resolution; 
(d) the investment manager shall also provide the option to the unitholders to vote 
either by way of post or through electronic mode; 
(e) a notice of not less than twenty one clear days shall be provided to the unit holders: 
333[ Provided that a meeting of unit holders of each scheme may be called after 
giving shorter notice than that specified in this clause if consent, in writing or by 
electronic mode, is accorded thereto - 
i. in case of an annual meeting, by not less than ninety-five percent of the 
unit holders of the scheme entitled to vote thereat; and  
ii. in case of any other meeting, by majority of the unitholders of the 
scheme in number entitled to vote thereat and who re present not less 
than ninety-five percent of such part of the units of the scheme by value 
as gives a right to vote at the meeting.] 
(f) no person who is interested in any transaction as well as associates of such 
person(s) shall vote on any matter related to that transaction; 
(g) investment manager shall be responsible for all the activities pertaining to the 
meeting of the unit holders of scheme, subject to oversight of the trustee: 
Provided that in issues pertaining to the investment manager including change in 
the investment manager, removal of the investment manager, change in control of 
the investment manager, the trustee shall convene and handle all activities 
pertaining to conduct of the meetings of unit holders: 
Provided further that in respect of issues pertaining to the trustee including change 
in the trustee, the trustee shall not be involved in any manner in the conduct of the 
meeting.  
334[(h)    for all unit holder meetings, the investment manager shall provide an option to the 
unit holders to attend the meeting through video conferencing or other audio visual 
                                                 
333 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, the words were “Provided that a meeting of the unit 
holders of each scheme may be called after giving shorter notice, if consent, in writing or by electronic mode, is 
accorded thereto, by not less than ninety -five per cent of the unit holders of the scheme entitled to vote at such 
meeting;” 
334 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024.

[Page 110]
110 
 
means and the option of remote electronic voting in the manner as may be 
specified by the Board.] 
(3) An annual meeting of unit holders of each scheme shall be held at least once every year, 
within one hundred and twenty days from the end of financial year and the time between two 
meetings shall not exceed fifteen months. 
(4) The investment manager or the trustee, as applicable, of the SM REIT shall conduct the 
meetings in accordance with the procedure as may be specified by the Board. 
(5) The investment manager of a SM REIT may conduct meeting of unitholders of each 
scheme through video conferencing or through other audio-visual means. 
(6) In the annual meeting of unitholders of each scheme , the investment manager shall place 
following matters before the unit holders for consideration of:  
(a) latest annual accounts and audit report of the SM REIT and its schemes, and a report 
on performance of the scheme of the SM REIT; 
(b) the appointment of, and the fixing of the fees of the auditor and the valuer; and 
(c) the latest valuation reports. 
(7) The matters mentioned in sub -regulation (6) of this regulation shall require approval of 
unitholders of the scheme, where votes cast in favour of the resolutio n shall be more than 
335[fifty per cent of the total votes cast for] the resolution. 
(8) Any information that is required to be disclosed to the unitholders of each scheme may 
also be taken up in the annual meeting of the unitholders of such scheme. 
(9) Approval from unitholders of the concerned scheme shall be required, where votes cast in 
favour of the resolution shall be more than 336[fifty per cent of the total votes cast for ] the 
resolution, in case of following items,–  
(a) any transaction, value of which is equal to  or greater than ten per cent. of the value 
of the assets of the particular scheme of SM REIT; 
(b) any borrowing in excess of limit specified under proviso to sub -regulation (5) of 
regulation 26U; 
                                                 
335 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, the words were “the votes cast against”. 
336 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, the words were “the votes cast against”.

[Page 111]
111 
 
(c) any issue for which the Board or the recognized stock exchanges  require such 
approval under this sub-regulation; 
(d) any issue, in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the Investment 
Manager or Trustee, is material and requires approval of the unitholders. 
337[(e)   increasing the period for compliance with investment conditions to one year in 
accordance with sub-regulation (2A) of regulation 26Tof these regulations.] 
(10) Approval from the unitholders of the scheme of the SM REIT shall be required, where 
votes cast in favour of the resolution shall 338[be at least sixty per cent of the total votes cast 
for] the resolution in case of the following items, – 
(a) any change in investment manager including removal of the investment manager or 
change in control of the investment manager; 
(b) any material change in investmen t strategy or any change in the fees payable to the 
investment manager by the SM REIT; 
(c) any issue of units after initial offer by a scheme of SM REIT, in whatever form; 
(d) the trustee and investment manager proposing to seek voluntary delisting of units of 
the scheme of the SM REIT;  
(e) any issue, not in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the 
investment manager or trustee requires approval of the unitholders; 
(f) any issue , which in the opinion of the Board or the recognized stock exchanges , 
requires approval under this sub-regulation; 
(g) removal of the auditor or valuer and appointment of another auditor or valuer to the 
SM REIT; 
(h) change in the trustee; 
(i) delisting of the scheme of the SM REIT if the unit holders have sufficient reason to 
believe that such delisting would act in the interest of the unitholders; and 
(j) extension of time period as specified under clause (b) of sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 26ZI. 
(11) The unitholders of the scheme of SM REIT may request any matter to be taken up in the 
                                                 
337 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025. 
338 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 28.09.2024. Prior to the substitution, the words were “not be less than one and a half 
times the votes cast against”.

[Page 112]
112 
 
unitholders’ meeting of such scheme if ten per  cent. of the unitholders of a particular scheme 
by value, apply in writing, to the trustee and the trustee shall require the investment manager 
to place the matter for voting in accordance with these regulations: 
Provided that the request of the unitholders of a scheme for change in the trustee shall be sent, 
in writing, to the investment manager, who shall, on receipt of such a request, place the matter 
for voting in the manner as specified in accordance with these regulations. 
 
Investor Grievance Redress 
26ZN. The investment manager shall abide by the guidelines and circulars issued by the 
Board in relation to the SCORES  and Online Dispute Resolution for resolution of investor 
grievances and disputes, including depositing such amount with the designated body as may 
be specified by the Board.] 
 
CHAPTER VII 
INSPECTION 
Boards right to inspect. 
27. The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more 
persons as inspecting officers to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records and 
documents relating to activity of the REIT 339[ or holdco or SPVs or parties to the REIT] for 
any of the following reasons, namely,-  
(a) to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the 
REIT or parties to the REIT in the manner specified in these regulations;  
(b) to inspect into complaints received from unit holders, clients or any other person, on any 
matter having a bearing on the activities of the REIT;  
(c) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied 
with by the REIT and parties to the REIT;  
(d) to inspect suo motu into the affairs of the REIT, in the interest of the se curities market or 
in the interest of investors.  
 
 
                                                 
339 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 113]
113 
 
Notice before inspection.  
28. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 27, the Board shall give not less than 
ten days notice to the trustee of the REIT.  
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that 
in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in writing, 
direct that the inspection of the affairs of the REIT be taken up without such notice.  
(3) During the course of an inspection, the REIT against whom the inspection is being carried 
out and parties to the REIT shall be bound to discharge their obligations as provided in 
regulation 29.  
 
Obligation of REIT, parties to the REIT and any other associate persons on inspection. 
29. (1) It shall be the duty of every REIT in respect of whom an inspection has been ordered 
under the regulation 27, parties to the REIT and any other associate person who is in possession 
of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such REIT, including representative 
of REIT, if any, to produce to the inspecting officer such books, accounts and other documents 
in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as the inspecting 
officer may require for the purposes of inspection.  
(2) It shall be the duty of every REIT, parties to the REIT and any other associate person who 
is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the REIT to give 
to the Inspecting Offic er all such assistance and to extend all such co -operation as may be 
required in connection with the inspection and to furnish such information as may be sought 
by the inspecting officer in connection with the inspection.  
(3) The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on oath 
and record the statement of any employees and directors of the REIT or parties to the REIT or 
340[ holdco or SPV(s) or] any person responsible for or connected with the activities of REIT 
or any other associated person having relevant information pertaining to such REIT. 
(4) The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain 
authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of REIT, from any person having control 
or custody of such documents, books or accounts.  
Submission of report to the Board.  
                                                 
340 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 114]
114 
 
30. The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit 
an inspection report to the Board: 
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report.  
 
Communication of findings etc. to the REIT. 
31. The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reasonable 
opportunity of hearing to the REITs or parties to the REIT or its representatives or any such 
person, issue such directions as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the investors 
in the nature of,- 
(a) requiring the REIT to delist its units from the designated stock exchanges and surrender 
its certificate of registration; 
(b) requiring the REIT to sell its assets; 
(c) requiring the REIT or parties to the REIT to take such action as may be in the interest 
of the investors; 
(d) prohibiting the REIT or parties to the REIT from operating in the capital market or 
from accessing the capital market for a specified period.  
 
 
CHAPTER VIII 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 
Liability for action in case of default. 
32. A REIT or parties to the REIT or any other person involved in the activity of the REIT who 
contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations , notifications, guidelines, 
circulars or instructions issued thereunder by the Board shall be liable for one or more actions 
specified therein including any action provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.  
  
341[CHAPTER VIII-A 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
                                                 
341 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulation, w.e.f. 17 -04-2020.

[Page 115]
115 
 
32A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or 
any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but n ot exceeding 
twelve months, for furthering innovation 342[***] relating to testing new products, processes, 
services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities 
markets. 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub -regulation (1) shall be subject to the 
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to 
be complied with on a continuous basis. 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live 
testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be 
deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering 
innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as  may be specified by the 
Board.]  
 
CHAPTER IX 
MISCELLANEOUS 
Power of the Board to issue clarifications. 
33. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, 
the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the manner as may be appropriate. 
 
343[Power to relax strict enforcement of Regulations 
 (33A) The Board may, in the interest of investors or for the development of the securities 
market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these r egulations, if the Board is 
satisfied that 
(a) requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or 
(b) the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or 
(c) the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry or class of listed 
entities; or 
(d) the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer; or 
                                                 
342 The words “in technological aspects” omitted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regul ations, 
2021 w.e.f. 3-8-2021. 
343 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 116]
116 
 
(e) such relaxation will be in the interest of securities market344[; or] 
345[(f)] any provision of Act(s), Rule(s), regulation(s) under which the listed entity is 
established or is governed by, is required to be given precedence to] 
 
Amendments to other regulations. 
34. The regulations specified in the Schedule VII to these regulations shall be amended in the 
manner and to the extent stated therein. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                 
344 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017  
345 Clause number inserted ibid

[Page 117]
117 
 
SCHEDULE I 
FORMS 
 FORM A 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 
Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration as Real Estate Investment Trust 
[See Regulation 3(2)] 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, C4-A, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai 400051 - India 
 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1. This form is meant for use by the applicant for grant of certificate of registration as a Real 
Estate Investment Trust. 
2. The applic ant should complete this form, and submit it, along with all supporting 
documents to the Board. 
3. This application form should be filled in accordance with these regulations. 
4. The application shall be considered by the Board provided it is complete in all respects. 
5. All answers must be legible and all the pages must be numbered with signature/ stamp on 
each page of the form. 
6. Information which needs to be supplied in more detail may be given on separate sheets 
which should be attached to the application form and appropriately numbered. 
7. The application must be signed and all signatures must be original. 
8. The application must be accompanied by an application fee as specified in the Second 
Schedule to these regulations. 
 
1. GENERAL INFORMATION 
(a) Name, address, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the REIT 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s)

[Page 118]
118 
 
(c) Whether the 346[trust] 347[/] sponsor(s)/348[***] manager 349[ or their associates or 
sponsor group(s)/ trustee] is/ are registered with SEBI, RBI or any other regulatory 
authority in any capacity along with the details of its registration  
(d) Details of infrastructure for conducting activities as an Real Estate Investment Trust 
2. 350[DETAILS OF TRUST] 
(a) Write-up on the activities of the 351[trust]  
(b) Whether the Trust Deed is registered under the provision s of the Registration Act, 
1908  
(c) Whether the Trust Deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of REIT and 
includes responsibilities of the Trustee in accordance with Regulation 9 of these 
Regulations (Enclose relevant extract of the Registered Trust Deed) 
(d) Whether any unit holder of the REIT enjoys preferential voting or any other rights 
over another unit holder 
(e) Whether there are multiple classes of units of REIT 
3. DETAILS OF TRUSTEE  
(a) Name, address of registered office, address for correspondence and principal place 
of business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the Trustee. 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 
(c) Brief write up on the activities of the trustee  
(d) Details of registration as a Debenture Trustee 
(e) 352[***] 
(f) Details of infrastructure, personnel, etc. relevant to the activity as trustee of the 
REIT 
(g) Identity and Address proof of the trustee and its directors  
(h) Whether the Trustee Company is registered with any regulatory authority other than 
SEBI in any capacity along with the details of its registration 
                                                 
346 Substituted for the word “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 
Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
347 Substituted “or its associates or its”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
348 Omitted “trustee/”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
349 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016,  w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
350 Substititted for the heading “DETAILS OF APPLICANT” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real 
Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
351 Substituted ibid.  
352 Omitted, by the SEBI (Real Estat e Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
Prior to its omission, sub paragraph (e) read as under : “List of associates of the trustee”

[Page 119]
119 
 
353[(i) Copy of the executed Trust Deed] 
4. DETAILS OF SPONSOR(S) (Provide details for every sponsor separately) 
(a) Name, address of registered office, address for correspondence and principal place 
of business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the sponsor(s) 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 
(c) Legal status of the sponsor, date and place of incorporation/ establishment, wherever 
applicable 
(d) In case of sponsor being individual(s), provide a brief profile of the sponsor 
including professional qualificatio n. In case of sponsor(s) being other than 
individual, write up on holding pattern and profile of the directors/partners including 
their professional qualification 
(e) Identity proof and address proof of the sponsor (if sponsor is an individual)/ directors 
of Sponsor (s)(if sponsor is a company)/ partners of the Sponsor(s) (if sponsor is an 
LLP) 
(f) Write up on the activities of the sponsor/its associates including past experience in 
development of real estate or fund management in the real estate industry 
(g) Whether the Sponsor has floated any REITs previously, which are registered with 
SEBI. If yes, details of the same  
(h) Proposed holding of the sponsor in the REIT on post-issue basis 
(i) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year  
(j) Net-worth certificate of sponsor(s) by a Chartered Accountant, not more than six 
months old 
5. DETAILS OF MANAGER  
(a) Name, address of the registered office address for correspondence, telephone 
number(s), fax number(s), of the Manager 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 
(c) Legal status, date and place of incorporation/ establishment, wherever applicable 
(d) Copy of 354[executed] Investment Management agreement  
                                                 
353 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Am endment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.  
354 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 120]
120 
 
(e) Write up on the activities of the Manager/ its associates including past experience in 
fund management/ advisory services/property management in the real estate industry 
or in development of real estate 
(f) List of Directors/ Members of Governing Board 
(g) Identity proof and address proof of the manager, its directors or partners 
(h) Shareholding/partnership interests and profile of the directors /partners  
(i) Details of the key personnel including experience and professional qualification 
(j) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year 
(k) Net-worth certificate of manager by a Chartered Acco untant, not more than six 
months old 
(l) Whether the Manager has acted as manager to any REIT previously, which are 
registered with SEBI. If yes, details of the same 
6. DETAILS OF BUSINESS PLAN AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY 
(a) Investment objective and investment style 
(b) Details of proposed initial offer 355[***]. 
(c) Brief details of the assets proposed to be held under REIT  
(d) Details of leverage at 356[holdco and /or SPV(s)]  and REIT level (current and 
proposed) 
(e) Fee structure  
7. DETAILS OF REGULATORY ACTION TAKEN IN THE PAST, IF ANY 
(a) Whether the 357[ REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/ members of 
governing board] are / were involved in any litigation connected with the securities 
market which may have an adverse bearing on the business of the 358[REIT] or any 
order has/ had  been passed against them for violation of securities laws. (If Yes, 
provide details. If No, enclose a declaration to that effect) 
(b) Whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory 
authority against the 359[ REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/ members 
                                                 
355 Omitted “including copy of the draft initial offer document”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
356 Substituted “SPV” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
30.11.2016 
357 Substituted “applicant or any of its related party(ies)” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
358 Substituted for “applicant” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
359 Substituted “applicant or any of its related party(ies)”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 121]
121 
 
of governing board]  under any Act or the Regulations/guidelines made thereunder 
(If Yes, provide details. If No, enclose a declaration to that effect) 
(c) Whether 360[REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/ members of governing 
board] has/ have been refused a certificate by the Board or its/ their certificate has 
been suspended at any time prior to this application. (If Yes, provide details. If No, 
enclose a declaration to that effect) 
8. OTHER INFORMATION/DECLARATIONS 
(a) Declaration that the sponsor(s) shall individually hold not less than 5% of the units 
of the REIT on post initial offer basis 
(b) Declaration that the 361[REIT and parties to the REIT] are fit and proper persons 
based on the criteria specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 
 
DECLARATION STATEMENT (TO BE GIVEN AS BELOW) 
We hereby agree and declare that the information supplied in the application, including the 
attachment sheets, is complete and true. 
AND we further agree that, we shall notify the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
immediately any change in the information provided in the application. 
We further agree that we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India  Act, 1992, and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, and any other regulations, guidelines or circulars as may 
be notified or issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 
We further agree that as a condition of registration, we shall abide by such operational 
instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from 
time to time. 
 
 
For and on behalf of____________________________________________________ 
(Name of the applicant) 
 
                                                 
360 Substituted “applicant or any of its related party(ies)”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Tr usts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
361 Substituted for the words “applicant, Sponsor and Manager” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 122]
122 
 
Authorized signatory 
(Signature) 
FORM B 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 
[See regulation 6(1)] 
Certificate of registration as a Real Estate Investment Trust  
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), read with the regulations made there under, 
the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to  
_______________________________________________________________  
as a Real Estate Investment Trust  subject to the conditions specified in the Act and in the 
regulations made thereunder.  
 
II. The Registration Number of the Real Estate Investment Trust is: 
_____________.  
 
Date :  
Place :  
 
By Order  
Sd/-  
For and on behalf of  
Securities and Exchange Board of India

[Page 123]
123 
 
362[SCHEDULE IA 
FORMS APPLICABLE TO SM REITS 
FORM A 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 
Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration as Small and 
Medium (SM) Real Estate Investment Trust 
[See Regulation 26I (1)] 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot C4-A, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai 400051 - India 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1. This form is meant for use by the applicant for grant of certificate of registration 
as a SM REIT. 
2. The applicant should complete this form, and submit it, along with all supporting 
documents to the Board. 
3. This application form should be filled in accordance with these regulations. 
4. The application shall be considered by the Board provided it is complete in all 
respects. 
5. All answers must be legible and all the pages must be numbered with signature/ 
stamp on each page of the form. 
6. Information which needs to be supplied in more detail may be given on separate 
sheets which should be attached to the application form and appropriately 
numbered. 
7. The application must be signed and all signatures must be original. 
8. The application must be accompanied by an application fee as specified in the  
Schedule IIA to these regulations. 
                                                 
362 Inserted by the the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 08.03.2024.

[Page 124]
124 
 
I. GENERAL INFORMATION 
(a) Name, address, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e -mail address of the 
SM REIT 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobil e number and e -mail of the contact 
person(s) 
(c) Whether the trust / investment manager or their associates or trustee is/ are 
registered with the Board, the Reserve Bank of India or any other regulatory 
authority in any capacity along with the details of its registration 
(d) Details of infrastructure for conducting activities as a SM REIT 
II. DETAILS OF TRUST 
(a) Write-up on the activities of the trust 
(b) Whether the trust deed is registered under the provisions of the Registration Act, 
1908 
(c) Whether the trust deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of SM REIT 
and includes responsibilities of the trustee in accordance with these Regulations 
(Enclose relevant extract of the Registered Trust Deed) 
III. DETAILS OF TRUSTEE 
(a) Name, address of r egistered office, address for correspondence and principal 
place of business, telephone number(s), fax number(s) , e -mail address of the 
Trustee 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 
(c) Brief write up on the activities of the trustee 
(d) Details of registration as a debenture trustee 
(e) Details of infrastructure, personnel, etc. relevant to the activity as trustee of the 
SM REIT 
(f) Identity and address proof of the trustee and its directors 
(g) Whether the trustee company is registered with any regulatory authority other 
than the Board in any capacity along with the details of its registration 
(h) Copy of the executed trust deed

[Page 125]
125 
 
IV. DETAILS OF INVESTMENT MANAGER 
(a) Name, address of the registered office  address for correspondence, telephone 
number(s), fax number(s), of the Investment Manager 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 
(c) Legal status, date and place of incorporation/ establishment, wherever applicable 
(d) Copy of executed investment management agreement 
(e) Write up on the activities of the investment manager, including past experience in 
real estate industry or real estate fund management 
(f) Details of the key managerial personnel including experience including past 
experience real estate industry or real estate fund management, and professional 
qualification 
(g) List of directors 
(h) Identity proof and address proof of the investment manager, its directors  
(i) Shareholding and profile of the directors 
(j) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year 
(k) Net-worth certificate of investment manager by a practicing Chartered Accountant, 
not more than six months old 
(l) Details of net-worth held in liquid assets, as required under these regulations 
(m) Whether the investment m anager has acted as manager to any REIT previously, 
which are registered with SEBI. If yes, details of the same 
V. DETAILS OF BUSINESS PLAN AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY 
(a) Investment objective and investment style 
(b) Details of proposed scheme offerings  
(c) Brief details of the assets proposed to be held under the scheme of the SM REIT  
(d) Fee structure 
(e) Migration plan of any existing persons, entities or structures to the structure of the 
scheme of the SM REIT, including timelines, milestones and any other relev ant 
details.

[Page 126]
126 
 
(f) Details of current holdings and investments in real estate 
(g) Details of past activities in real estate  
VI. DETAILS OF REGULATORY ACTION TAKEN IN THE PAST, IF ANY 
(a) Whether the SM REIT or the parties to the SM REIT or their directors are/ were 
involved in any litigation connected with the securities market which may have 
an adverse bearing on the business of the SM REIT or any order has/ had been 
passed against them for violation of securities laws. (If yes, provide details. If no, 
enclose a declaration to that effect) 
(b) Whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other 
regulatory authority against the SM REIT or the Parties to the SM REIT or their 
promoters or directors under any Act or the Regulations/guidelines made 
thereunder (If yes, provide details. If no, enclose a declaration to that effect) 
(c) Whether SM REIT or the Parties to the SM REIT or their directors has/ have been 
refused a certificate by the Board or its/ their certificate has been suspended at any 
time prior to this application. (If yes, provide details. If no, enclose a declaration 
to that effect) 
VII. OTHER INFORMATION/DECLARATIONS 
(a) Declaration that the investment manager shall comply with the lock-in conditions 
as specified under these regulations. 
(b) Declaration that the SM REIT and the parties to the SM REIT shall be fit and 
proper persons based on the criteria specified in the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. 
 
DECLARATION STATEMENT (TO BE GIVEN AS BELOW) 
We hereby agree and declare that the information supplied in the application, including 
the attachment sheets, is complete and true. 
AND we further agree that, we shall notify the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
immediately any change in the information provided in the application.

[Page 127]
127 
 
We further agree that we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, and the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, and any other regulations, 
guidelines or circulars as may  be notified or issued by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India from time to time. 
We further agree that as a condition of registration, we shall abide by such operational 
instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
from time to time. 
 
For and on behalf of   
(Name of the applicant) 
Authorized signatory 
(Signature) 
FORM B 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 
Trusts) Regulations, 2014 
[See regulation 26L (1)] 
Certificate of registration as a SM REIT 
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), read with the regulations made 
there under, the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to 
 
as a SM Real Estate Investment Trust subject to the conditions specified in the Act 
and in the regulations made thereunder. 
 
II. The Registration Number of the SM Real Estate Investment Trust is: 
  . 
Date :

[Page 128]
128 
 
Place : 
By Order 
           Sd/-  
For and on behalf of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India

[Page 129]
129 
 
SCHEDULE II 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 
[See Regulation 3(2), 6(1) and 14(10)] 
FEES TO BE PAID WITH RESPECT TO REGISTRATION AS A REIT 
1. Every applicant shall pay non-refundable application fees of one lakh rupees along 
with the application for grant of certificate of registration. 
2. Every applicant shall pay as non -refundable registration fees a sum of ten lakh 
rupees within fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board. 
3. REIT shall pay non-refundable filing fees of: 
(a) 0.1% in case of initial and follow-on offer; and  
(b) 0.05% in case of rights issue,  
of the total issue size including intended retention of oversubscription at the time 
of filing of draft Offer document with the Board  
4. If the issue size estimated by the REIT differs from eventual issue size and 
thereby:– 
(a) the fees paid by the REIT is found to be deficient, the balance fee shall be 
paid by the issuer 363[alongwith] filing 364[of the final offer document] with 
the recognised stock exchanges, as the case may be; and 
(b) if any excess fee is found to have been paid, it shall be refunded by the 
Board to the REIT. 
5. Such application, registration and filing fees shall be paid by the applicant/REIT 
365[by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any 
other mode allowed by RBI or] by a demand draft in favo ur of 'Securities and 
Exchange Board of In dia' payable at Mumbai or at respective regional or local 
office, as may be required. 
 
                                                 
363 Substituted “within seven days of registering the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies or ” by the SEBI 
(Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
364 Substituted “the letter of offer” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016 
365 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment)  (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 
6.3.2017.

[Page 130]
130 
 
366[SCHEDULE IIA 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 
[See regulations 26I (1), 26L (1) and 26R (2)] 
FEES TO BE PAID WITH RESPECT TO REGISTRATION AS SM REIT 
1. Every applicant shall pay non -refundable application fees of rupees one lakh 
along with the application for grant of certificate of registration. 
2. Every applicant shall pay non -refundable registration fees of rupees ten lakh 
within fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board. 
3. The scheme of the SM REIT, in case of initial offering or a follow on offering 
shall pay non -refundable filing fees that is the higher of, rupees five lakh, and 
0.1 per cent.  of the total scheme issue size including intended retention of 
oversubscription, at the time of filing of draft scheme offer document with the 
Board. 
4. If the issue size estimated by the SM REIT differs from eventual issue size and 
thereby– 
(a) the fees paid by the SM REIT is found to be deficient, the balance fee shall 
be paid by the issuer along with filing of the final scheme offer document 
with the recognized stock exchanges, as the case may be; and 
(b) if any excess fee is found to have been pa id to the Board , it shall be 
refunded by the Board to the SM REIT. 
Such application, registration and filing fees shall be paid by the applicant or SM REIT, as 
applicable, by way of direct credit into the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or 
online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other mode as may be specified by 
the Board from time to time.] 
  
                                                 
366 Inserted by the the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 08.03.2024.

[Page 131]
131 
 
SCHEDULE III 
[See Regulations 15 and 23] 
MANDATORY DISCLOSURES IN INITIAL OFFER DOCUMENT/FOLLOW ON 
OFFER DOCUMENT 
1. Introduction 
a. Name, registered office address, correspondence address, contact person (s), 
contact details and email id of the REIT 
b. Place and date of creation of the REIT 
c. Registration number and date of registration of the REIT with SEBI  
2. Details of parties to the REIT 
a. Sponsor  
i. Name, re gistered office address, correspondence addresses, Contact 
person (s), contact details, email id 
ii. Background of the sponsor including activities being undertaken by the 
sponsor with respect to real estate 
b. Manager 
i. Background of the manager including past exp erience in 
management/advisory services in real estate 
ii. Brief functions, duties and responsibilities of the manager 
iii. Brief profiles of the directors of the manager and units held by them in 
the REIT, if any 
c. Trustee 
i. Background of the trustee including details of registration with SEBI 
ii. Names and profiles of the Directors 
iii. Functions, duties and responsibilities of the Trustee 
d. Valuer  
i. Background of the valuer including past experience in valuation in real 
estate, especially in valuation of similar assets by nature and location 
ii. Policy of appointment and removal

[Page 132]
132 
 
3. Brief background of the REIT 
a. Glossary of terms/abbreviations 
b. Structure and description of the REIT 
c. Details of Property Management / Lease Ma nagement and any other 
arrangements pertaining to underlying REIT assets, entered into with various 
parties prior to the issue 
d. Holding structure of the REIT prior to the issue including breakup of the units 
held by the sponsor, manager, any other party to the REIT and any other unit 
holder holding greater than 5% of the units of the REIT 
e. Proposed holding structure by the aforesaid parties post-issue 
f. Fee and expenses charged/chargeable to the REIT by various parties including 
fees charged by the manager, valuer, auditor, trustees and any other third party 
and shall also include any set-up costs 
4. Terms of the issue 
a. Terms of the offer including number of units, price, issue opening date, issue 
closing date, terms and conditions and any other information as may b e 
required for the investor to make an informed decision 
b. Policy of distribution including method of calculation and the frequency for 
distribution 
c. Listing of units 
i. Names of the Designated Stock Exchanges where units are proposed to 
be listed  
ii. Timelines for listing 
iii. Declaration that prior in-principle approval has been obtained from the 
Designated Stock Exchanges 
367[d. Commitment received from strategic investors, if any.] 
5. Market overview  
6. Description of the assets under the REIT 
a. Breakup/proposed breakup of REIT assets in terms of Regulation 18  
                                                 
367 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017

[Page 133]
133 
 
b. Description of real estate assets of the REIT including the general character 
and competitive conditions of all the properties held or intended to be acquired 
by the REIT and pictures of the properties.  
c. Key statistics of the properties (area, occupancy, location, etc.) 
d. Special features of the properties, if any  
e. Details of the 368[holdco and/or] SPVs through which the properties are 
held/proposed to be held including holding pattern, holding of REIT in the 
369[holdco and/or] SPV, rights of REIT in the 370[holdco and/or] SPV, etc. 
f. In case the properties are held directly by the REIT, details of holding of all 
the owners of the properties including percentage of ownership, rights of REIT 
vis-à-vis other owners, etc. 
g. Confirmation of adequate Insurance by the Trustee  
h. For leased out properties (property-wise), the following additional disclosures 
shall be made: 
i. Total number of tenants 
ii. Rental income as a percentage of total gross income in aggregate for 
the top 10 tenants  
iii. Lease-maturity profile, in terms of the percentage of total gross rental 
income, for each of the next five years 
iv. a summary of the terms of any sub-leases or tenancies, including repair 
obligation, granted to the tenants of the property 
v. the existing monthly rental income before tax from the property which 
is wholly or partly let, together with the amount and a description of 
any outgoings or disbursements from the rent 
vi. the estimated current monthly market rental obtainable, on the basis 
that the property was available to let on the effective date as at which 
the property was valued 
vii. a summary of any rent review provisions 
viii. Level of furnishing of the properties including whether the properties 
are cold-shell properties or fully furnished 
                                                 
368 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
369 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
370 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016

[Page 134]
134 
 
ix. Whether any clauses exist in rental agreements providing high grace 
period in lieu of higher rental values. If yes, details shall be provided 
i. For under -construction properties (property-wise), the following additional 
disclosures shall be made: 
i. Stage of construction along with % of completed construction as at the 
end of the year 
ii. Progress of construction 
iii. Expected completion  
iv. Status of approval/assessment from various authorities including 
statutory assessment & environment considerations with respect to 
development regulations and planning norms 
7. Business Details and Strategy 
a. Investment strategy 
 Description of investment strategy including category, type, location, 
allocation to each type, co-investment in properties, etc.  
 Description of ROFR with respect to any properties 
 Capital and risk management strategy 
b. Use of proceeds: 
 purpose of the issue 
 Issue Expenses 
c. 371[***]  
8. Leverage 
a. Capital structure of the REIT assets including any borrowings/deferred 
payments with respect to the REIT assets prior to the issue and post -issue 
(Standalone and consolidated) 
b. Borrowing policy  
9. Conflict of interest and Related party transactions 
a. Procedure for dealing with related party transactions and Conflict of Interest  
                                                 
371 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior 
to its omission, sub paragraph (c) read as follows: 
“Projections of income of the REIT over next three years beginning the current financial year certified by the 
manager with respect to calculation and assumptions and certified by the auditor with respect to arithmetical 
accuracy”

[Page 135]
135 
 
 
 
b. Details of any related party transactions 372[which are] undertaken 373[ in last 
three financial years and current financial year] as well as any such transactions 
proposed in the future 
10. Valuation 
a. Summary of valuation as per the full valuation report 
b. Valuation methodology  
c. Frequency of valuation and declaration of NAV 
11. Financials 
a. Total rental income from the properties (property-wise) under the REIT for the 
previous 3 years 
b. Summary of the f inancial statements of the REIT  374[***], manager and 
sponsor for the previous 3 years, as applicable  
c. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of factors affecting financial condition 
and results of operations by the Manager 
375[(d) Projections of income of the REIT over next three years beginning the 
current financial year certified by the manager and the auditor with respect to 
calculation and assumptions  
(e) Contingent liabilities as on the date of the financial information disclosed 
in the offer document/placement memorandum] 
12. Rights of Unit Holders  
a. Rights of unit holders  
b. Proposed disclosures to the unit holders either directly or by public 
dissemination on the Designated Stock Exchanges website 
c. Frequency and manner of meetings of unit holders 
                                                 
372 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 . 
373 Substitued “prior to the offer” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
374 Omitted “(consolidated and stand alone)”  by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
375 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 .

[Page 136]
136 
 
13. Title disclosures, litigations and regulatory actions  
a. Title disclosure of the properties including any material litigations pertaining 
to the properties 
b. Brief description of the material litigations and regulatory actions  376[which 
are] pending, against the REIT, sponsor 377[(s)], manager, 378[ or any of their 
associates and sponsor group(s), the trustee and valuer,] if any 379[***] 
14. Risk factors 
15. Brief details on taxation and regulatory aspects to enable the investors to make 
an informed decision 
16. Other general information 
a. Key terms of material agreements relating to the REIT including but not 
limited to the investment management agreement 
b. Policy of appointment of auditor and auditing standards to be followed 
c. Policy and timelines for redressal of complaints by the investors 
17. Supporting Documents 
a. 380[***] 
b. Auditors Report 
c. Any other such report 
18. Such other information as is material and appropriate to enable the investors to 
make an informed decision 
19. Declarations 381[(to be signed by the board of directors of the manager and 
sponsor)] 
382[20. The documents to be provided to the Board,- 
a. Full valuation report, alongwith offer document 
                                                 
376 Substituted “, whether completed or” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
377 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 . 
378 Substituted “ trustee, valuer or any of their associates, ” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
379 Symbol and words “, in the past 5 years” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018. 
380 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior 
to its omission, sub paragraph (a) read as follows: 
 “Full Valuation Report” 
381 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
382 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 .

[Page 137]
137 
 
b. Due diligence certificate alongwith draft offer document and offer document 
c. In principle approval from the exchange(s)]

[Page 138]
138 
 
383[Schedule IIIA 
[See Regulation 26S (1)] 
MANDATORY DISCLOSURES IN SCHEME OFFER DOCUMENT 
Instructions for preparation of scheme offer document: 
(a) Plain white backgrounds shall be used for all pages without watermarks. 
(b) A summary of all key information shall be included within the first 1-2 cover 
pages, prior to the table of contents such as name of the SM REIT, name of the 
scheme of SM REIT, SM REIT registration status, principal place of business, 
contact number, compliance officer details, email ID, website of SM REIT, 
specific webpage for scheme (if any), details of offer (including offer size in 
rupees and in units, offer type, offer split into fresh issue vs OFS, both in rupees 
and units, wherever applicable), details of parties to the SM REIT, reservation 
and allotment patterns (QIB, retail etc.), standard disclaimers w.r.t the issue being 
the first issue by the SM REIT under that scheme, ASBA (with reference to Issue 
Procedure section), clause for General Risks, clause addressing Investment 
Manager’s Absolute Responsibility, proposed stock e xchanges for listing and 
status of in -principle approvals from them, names, contact details and email 
addresses of registered intermediaries connected to the issue (such as BRLMs, 
RTA, CRA etc.), proposed issue opening and closing dates, etc. 
(c) The annotated table of contents shall be added after the cover page.  
(d) A summary of the scheme of SM REIT in the tabular format mentioned below, 
covering the following details shall be included after the table of contents:   
S. No. Particulars Contents 
1.  Name of the SM REIT    
2.  Name of the Investment Manager and Trustee    
3.  Contact details of the Investment Manager    
4.  Contact details of the Merchant Banker(s)    
5.  Listing (including name of stock Exchange(s) where it will 
be listed and timeline for listing)    
6.  Issue Size    
7.  Issue Price    
8.  NAV per unit    
9.  Minimum Application and in multiples of [●] units 
thereafter    
10.  Issue Timing    
11.  Issue Opening Date    
12.  Issue Closing Date    
13.  Pay-in Date    
                                                 
383 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 139]
139 
 
14.  Expected Date of Allotment    
15.  Issuance mode of the Instrument    
16.  Depository    
17.  Objects of the Issue    
18.  Brief description of the assets under each scheme of the SM 
REIT    
19.  Brief description of each scheme under the SM REIT   
20.  Relevant Financial ratios    
21.  Capital structure of the assets held under each scheme of 
the SM REIT   
22.  Brief details of valuation of each asset under each scheme 
of the SM REIT   
23.  Brief description of ROFR, if any    
24.  Brief details of policy of distributions to the unit holders    
25.  Brief details of fee and expenses charged or chargeable to 
the SM REIT under each scheme   
26.  Details with respect to top 5 risk factors   
 
(e) A standardized list of chapters with well -defined sections and sub -sections as 
mentioned above for disclosures in scheme offer document may be used while 
providing disclosure in the scheme offer document. Any information that doesn’t 
fit within the pre -established structure can be included under an "Other 
Information" section. 
(f) For long tables running into more than one page, repeated headers should be 
included.  
(g) Fresh chapter should be started from a new page and not from the end of the 
previous chapters. 
(h) Hyperlinks may be included in the scheme offer document in order to access the 
information relied upon such as relevant taxation provisions, laws relating to real 
estate, etc. The information being referenced should be uploaded in the website 
of SM REIT. Th e information  and database accessed through the hyperlink 
should be static.  
(i) The offer documents should include referencing of relevant Regulations and 
circulars issued thereunder wherever disclosures are mentioned 
(j) PDF version of the scheme offer document in a plain text with page numbers 
formats shall be submitted separately while filing scheme offer document. 
(k) QR codes, if any in the scheme offer document shall be submitted separately 
while filing scheme offer document.

[Page 140]
140 
 
PART A: MANDATORY DISCLOSURES IN KIT 
Sr. 
No. 
Disclosure 
Requirement  
Details which shall be disclosed 
1.  Introduction a. Name, registered office address, correspondence 
address, contact person (s), contact details and email id 
of the SM REIT; 
 
b. Place and date of creation of the SM REIT; 
 
c. Registration number and date of registration of the SM 
REIT with SEBI. 
2.  Details of parties to the SM REIT 
a. Investment 
Manager 
a. Background of the investment manager including past 
experience in real estate industry or real estate fund 
management;  
 
In case investment manager is unable to meet the above 
requirement, details of key managerial personnel who 
possess not less than five years’ experience in real estate 
industry or real estate fund management; 
 
b. Brief functions, duties and responsibilities of the 
investment manager; 
 
c. Brief profiles of the directors of the investment manager 
and units held by them in the SM REIT, if any. 
b. Trustee a. Background of the trustee including details of 
registration with SEBI; 
 
b. Names and profiles of the Directors; 
 
c. Functions, duties and responsibilities of the Trustee. 
3.  Brief 
background of 
the SM REIT 
a. Glossary of terms  and abbreviations (relevant 
information which is present in the KIT shall be 
included here); 
 
b. Structure and description of the SM REIT (this section 
shall include details with respect to the structure of the 
SM REIT and various scheme(s) which it may have 
from time to time); 
 
c. Details with respect to the registration certificate 
granted by SEBI to the SM REIT; 
 
d. Information with respect to the eligibility criteria of the 
parties to the SM REIT (as required under Regulation 
26J of the REIT Regulations);

[Page 141]
141 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Disclosure 
Requirement  
Details which shall be disclosed 
l 
e. Eligibility details in relation to the issuer (as required 
under Regulation 26P(1) of these Regulations); 
 
f. General principles related to valuation of each asset and 
general distribution mechanism followed under each 
scheme of the SM REIT; 
 
g. Information with respect to the investor grievance 
redressal mechanism setup by the SM REIT. 
 
4.  Migration of 
existing persons, 
entities or 
structures 
Migration plan along with  details of existing persons, 
entities or structures as required in Regulation 26N of these 
Regulations. 
5.  Terms of the 
Offer 
Information as may be required for the investor to make an 
informed decision (only such information will be included 
in this portion which are relevant to the SM REIT).  
 
Further, eligibility details with respect to the offer made by 
the SM REIT would be included in this section, as required 
under Regulation 26P(2) of the se Regulations, along with 
details related to minimum public unitholding. 
 
6.  Market overview General overview of the SM REIT with respect to the 
macro market which is being targeted by the SM REIT. 
7.  Business details and Strategy 
a. Investment 
Strategy 
a. Description of investment strategy (the relevant strategy 
related to the macro markets which are targeted by the 
SM REIT) including category, type, location, allocation 
to each type, along with  the investment conditions 
specified under Regulation 26T of these Regulations. 
 
b. Capital and risk management strategy. 
b. Leverage Details with respect to the borrowing policy of the SM 
REIT 
8.  Financials Summary of the financial statements of the SM REIT and 
investment manager for the previous 3 financial years, as 
applicable 
9.  Rights of the 
Unit Holders 
a. Rights of the Unitholders 
It shall include such rights of the unitholders which are 
related to the functioning of the SM REIT.  
 
For example, the voting rights of all the unitholders of 
the SM REIT which are linked to the change in the

[Page 142]
142 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Disclosure 
Requirement  
Details which shall be disclosed 
Investment Manager, change in the investment strategy 
of the SM REIT, etc. 
 
b. Proposed disclosures to the unit holders either directly 
or by public dis semination on the Designated Stock 
Exchanges website (which pertain to all the unitholders 
of the SM REIT). 
 
c. Frequency and manner of meetings of unit holders (for 
those matters which pertain to all the unitholders of the 
SM REIT). 
10.  Litigations and 
regulatory 
actions 
Brief description of the material litigations and regulatory 
actions which are pending, against the SM REIT, 
investment manager or any of its associates and the trustee, 
if any. 
11.  Risk Factors pertaining to the SM REIT 
12.  Brief details on taxation and regulatory aspects related to the SM REIT to 
enable the investors to make an informed decision 
13.  Other general 
information 
a. Key terms of material agreements relating to the SM 
REIT including but not limited to the investment 
management agreement, trust deed, tripartite 
agreements etc. 
b. Policy of appointment of auditor, information with 
respect to the auditor and auditing standards to be 
followed. 
c. Policy and timelines for redresses of complaints by the 
investors 
14.  Supporting 
Documents 
a. Auditors report 
b. Any other such report 
15.  General 
Information 
regarding offer 
procedure  
a. Offer Procedure - Book Building Process or Fixed Price 
Process 
 
b. Information with respect to Bid cum Application Form 
 
c. Information with respect to who can bid in the offer 
 
d. Conditions for Bids by FPIs/ MFs/ Insurance 
Companies, VCFs, AIFs, Banking Companies, PFs etc. 
 
e. Method and process of Bidding 
 
f. Payment Mechanism for ASBA Bidders 
 
g. Grounds for Technical Rejections 
 
h. Electronic Registration of Bids

[Page 143]
143 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Disclosure 
Requirement  
Details which shall be disclosed 
 
i. Build-up of the book and revision of Bid 
 
j. Designated Dates and Allotment of Units 
 
k. Mode of Refunds 
 
l. Such other information as considered appropriate 
16.  Process for Allotment and Listing 
17.  Such other 
information as is 
material and 
appropriate to 
enable the 
investors to 
make an 
informed 
decision 
Relevant confirmations with respect to the disclosures 
included in the KIT shall be included here, as required 
under Regulation 26(S) (1), (2), (3) and (4) of the se 
Regulations. 
18.  Declarations which shall be signed by the board of directo rs of the 
investment manager 
 
            PART B: MANDATORY DISCLOSURES IN KIS 
Sr. 
No. 
Disclosure 
Requirement 
Details which shall be disclosed 
1.  Introduction Cross reference to the KIT shall be included here. 
2.  Brief background of the 
scheme of SM REIT 
a. Glossary of terms  and abbreviations (relevant 
information which is present in the KIS would be 
included here); 
 
b. Description of the Scheme; 
 
c. Details of Property Management or Lease 
Management  or any other arrangements pertaining 
to underlying SM REIT asset s (disclosure shall be 
limited to only the assets under the specific scheme), 
entered into with various parties prior to the offer; 
 
d. Holding structure of the scheme of SM REIT prior 
to the offer including breakup of the units held by 
the investment manager  and any other unit holder 
holding greater than 5% of the units of the scheme 
of SM REIT, along with details of any other party to 
the SM REIT under the holding structure; 
 
e. Proposed holding structure by the aforesaid parties 
post-offer;

[Page 144]
144 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Disclosure 
Requirement 
Details which shall be disclosed 
 
f. Fee and expenses charged or chargeable to the 
scheme of SM REIT by various parties including 
fees charged by the investment manager, valuer, 
auditor, trustees and any other third party and shall 
also include any set-up costs for the scheme; 
 
g. Total expense ratio; 
 
h. Details w ith respect to merchant banker(s) 
appointed for the scheme; 
 
i. Confirmation with respect to the lock -in 
requirements, along with details of units which 
would be locked-in by the investment manager from 
the date of listing of units (as required in Regulation 
26ZB of these Regulations); 
 
3.  Terms of the Offer a. Terms of the offer for the scheme including number 
of units, price, offer opening date, offer closing date, 
terms and conditions and any other information as 
may be required for the investor to make an 
informed decision; 
 
b. Policy of distribution including method of 
calculation and the frequency for distribution for the 
scheme; 
 
c. Listing of units: 
 
(i) Names of the Stock Exchanges where units are 
proposed to be listed; 
 
(ii) Timelines for listing; 
 
(iii) Declaration that prior in-principle approval has 
been obtained from the Stock Exchanges; 
 
d. Eligibility details with respect to the offer made by 
the scheme of SM REIT shall be included in this 
section (as required under Regulation 26P(2) of 
these Regulations). 
4.  Market overview General overview of the scheme and the micro market 
where the scheme is targeting its investments (basis 
location and type of asset).

[Page 145]
145 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Disclosure 
Requirement 
Details which shall be disclosed 
5.  Description of the assets 
under the scheme of SM 
REIT  
a. Description of real estate assets of the scheme 
of SM REIT including the general character 
and competitive conditions of all the properties 
held or intended to be acquired by the scheme 
of SM REIT and pictures of the properties. 
 
b. Key statistics of the properties (type of 
property, area, occupancy, location, lease 
expiry (if any), etc.) 
 
c. Special features of the properties, if any 
 
d. Details of the SPVs through which the 
properties are held or proposed to be held 
including holding pattern, holding of scheme of 
SM REIT in the SPV, rights of scheme of SM 
REIT in the SPV,  etc. Further, disclosures 
pertaining to the scheme of SM REIT’s control 
over the relevant SPVs, along with the 
exclusive rights in the SPV shall be given. 
 
e. Confirmation of adequate Insurance by the 
Trustee 
 
f. For leased out properties, the following 
additional disclosures shall be made (property-
wise): 
 
(i) Total number of tenants; 
 
(ii) Rental income as a percentage of total gross 
income in aggregate for the top 10 tenants; 
 
(iii) Lease-maturity profile, in terms of the 
percentage of total gross rental income, for 
each of the next five years; 
 
(iv) a summar y of the terms of  sub -leases or 
tenancies, if any, including repair 
obligation, granted to the tenants of the 
property; 
 
(v) the existing monthly rental income before 
tax from the property which is wholly or 
partly let, t ogether with the amount and a

[Page 146]
146 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Disclosure 
Requirement 
Details which shall be disclosed 
description of any outgoings or 
disbursements from the rent; 
 
(vi) the estimated current monthly market rental 
obtainable, on the basis that the property 
was available to let on the effective date  at 
which the property was valued; 
 
(vii)  a summary of any rent review provisions; 
 
(viii) Level of furnishing of the properties 
including whether the properties are cold -
shell properties or fully furnished; 
 
(ix) Comparable lease rental income of similar 
properties in the vicinity or adjoining areas; 
 
(x) Whether any clause  exists in rental 
agreements providing high grace period in 
lieu of higher rental values. If yes, details 
shall be provided. 
 
6.  Business details and Strategy 
a. Investment Strategy a. Description of investment strategy (the relevant 
strategy would be related to the micro markets 
which are being targeted by the scheme) including 
category, type, location, allocation to each type; 
 
b. Description of ROFR with respect to any 
properties under the scheme; 
 
c. Capital and risk management strategy of the 
scheme. 
b. Use of proceeds a. Purpose of the offer; 
 
b. Offer expenses. 
c. Leverage a. Capital structure of the assets under the scheme 
including any borrowings or deferred payments 
with respect to the such assets prior to the offer and 
post-offer; 
 
b. Borrowing policy of the assets under the scheme; 
 
c. State whether the scheme is with leverage or 
without leverage in accordance with Regulation 
26U(2) of these Regulations. In case of a scheme

[Page 147]
147 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Disclosure 
Requirement 
Details which shall be disclosed 
with no leverage, the investment manager shall 
submit an undertaking that the partic ular scheme 
shall not utilize any leverage in future. 
7.  Valuation a. Summary of valuation as per the full valuation 
report; 
 
b. Valuation methodology; 
 
c. Frequency of valuation and declaration of NAV. 
8.  Financials a. If discrete financial statements are available for the 
assets for previous 3 years and stub period (if 
applicable), then historical financial statements 
shall be disclosed for last three years and stub 
period (if applicable) or for such shorter period for 
which the financial statements are available.  
 
b. In case more than one SPV is being acquired under 
a scheme and discrete financial statements are 
available for the SPVs, then combined financial 
statements shall also be disclosed for last three 
years and stu b period (if applicable) or for such 
shorter period for which the financial statements 
are available. 
 
c. If discrete financial statements as per above are not 
available for past periods, the investment manager 
shall disclose specific reasons for non -availability 
of such information; 
 
d. In case of non-availability of financial statements, 
total rental income from the properties (property -
wise) under the scheme for the previous three years 
and stub period (if applicable) shall be disclosed;  
 
e. Guidance on preparat ion and audit of historical 
financial information (including preparation or 
audit of combined financial statements) as 
applicable for REITs shall be applicable mutatis 
mutandis for scheme of SM REIT 
 
f. Projections of income of the scheme over next 
three year s beginning the current financial year 
certified by the investment manager and the 
auditor with respect to calculation and assumption; 
 
g. Contingent Liabilities as on the date of KIS;

[Page 148]
148 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Disclosure 
Requirement 
Details which shall be disclosed 
9.  Rights of the Unit 
Holders 
a. Rights of the Unitholders 
It shall include such rights of the unitholders which 
are related to the matters pertaining to the relevant 
scheme. Further, it shall include voting rights of 
the unitholders where only the relevant unitholders 
under the scheme would have the right to vote; 
 
b. Proposed disclosures to the unit holders pertaining 
to the scheme, either directly or by public 
dissemination on the Designated Stock Exchanges 
website; 
 
c. Frequency and manner of meetings of unit holders 
(for those matters which pertain to the unitholders 
of the relevant scheme). 
10.  Title disclosures, 
litigations and 
regulatory actions 
a. Title disclosure of the properties including any 
material litigations pertaining to the properties 
(details of such litigation shall be updated as on 
date of the KIS); 
 
b. Brief description of the material litigations and 
regulatory actions which are pending against the 
valuer of the scheme of SM REIT, if any. 
11.  Risk Factors Risk factors (internal and external) which pertain to the 
schemes’ assets or properties, their locati on or the 
micro market in which the scheme operates. 
12.  Brief details on taxation 
and regulatory aspects 
to enable the investors 
to make an informed 
decision 
In the event where an asset under a scheme is governed 
under a specific tax and regulatory regime, then 
relevant disclosures related to such aspects shall be 
included in this section and / or a cross reference to the 
KIT shall be included in this section of the KIS. 
13.  Other general 
information 
Key terms of material agreements relating to the assets 
held under the scheme, such as the property 
management agreement, shared services agreement 
etc. 
14.  Supporting Documents a. Undertaking by the investment manager in case of 
scheme with no leverage. 
 
b. Auditor’s report prepared on a standalone basis for 
each SPV or o n combined financial statements, if 
applicable. 
 
c. Any other such report. 
15.  Offer procedure  a. Selling restriction, if any 
 
b. Minimum Subscription and Minimum Allotment

[Page 149]
149 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Disclosure 
Requirement 
Details which shall be disclosed 
 
c. Price Discovery (if applicable) and Allocation 
 
d. Basis of allotment 
 
e. Timelines for allotment and listing 
16.  Such other information 
as is material and 
appropriate to enable 
the investors to make an 
informed decision 
a. Information with respect to lease rental income for 
each property proposed to be acquired by the 
scheme of the SM REIT, along with the comparable 
lease rental income of other similar properties (such 
comparable disclosures shall be sourced from or 
certified by a valuer or any other persons).  
 
b. Relevant confirmations with respect to the 
disclosures included in the KIS shall be included 
here, as required under Regulation 26(S) (1), (2), (3) 
and (4) of these Regulations. 
 
c. Relevant material and appropriate info rmation 
which is related to the scheme or the asset held under 
the scheme and which would enable the investors to 
make an informed decisions shall be included 
herein. 
17.  Declarations which shall be signed by the board of directors of the investment 
manager 
18.  Details of the Valuer Following details of valuer(s) for the scheme shall be 
included: 
 
a. Background of the valuer including past experience 
in valuation in real estate, especially in valuation of 
similar assets by nature and location; 
 
b. Policy of appointment and removal. 
19.  Documents to be 
annexed 
a. Full Valuation Report 
b. Auditors Report 
c. Due Diligence Certificate 
d. In-principal approval from stock exchange(s) 
e. such other report in connection with schemes’ 
asset(s), as applicable. 
] 
SCHEDULE IV 
[See Regulation 23(4)] 
MANDATORY DISCLOSURES

[Page 150]
150 
 
 
Mandatory Disclosures in the Annual Report 
1. Manager's brief report of activities of the REIT and summary of the audited stand alone 
and consolidated financial statements for the year of the REIT 
2. Management discussion and analysis by the directors of the manager on activities of the 
REIT during the year, forecasts and future course of action 
3. Brief details of all the assets of the REIT including a break-up of real estate assets and other 
assets, location of th e properties, area of the properties, current tenants ( not less than top 
10 tenants as per value  of lease) , lease maturity profile, details of under -construction 
properties, if any, etc. 
4. Brief summary of the full valuation report as at the end of the year 
5. Details of changes during the year pertaining to: 
a. Addition and divestment of assets including the identity of the buyers or sellers, 
purchase/sale prices and brief details of valuation for such transactions 
b. Valuation of assets (as per the full valuation reports) and NAV  
c. Letting of assets, occupancy, lease maturity, key tenants, etc. 
d. Borrowings/ repayment of borrowings(standalone and consolidated) 
e. Sponsor, manager, trustee, valuer, directors of the Trustee/manager/sponsor, etc. 
f. Clauses in trust deed, invest ment management agreement or any other agreement 
entered into pertaining to activities of REIT 
g. Any other material change during the year 
6. Update on development of under-construction properties, if any 
7. Details of outstanding borrowings and deferred payments of REIT including any credit 
rating(s), debt maturity profile, gearing ratios of the REIT on a consolidated and standalone 
basis as at the end of the year  
8. Debt maturity profile over each of the next 5 years and debt covenants, if any; 
9. The total operating expenses of the REIT, including all fees and charges paid to the manager 
and any other parties, if any during the year 
10. Past performance of the REIT with respect to unit price, distributions and yield for the last 
5 years, as applicable 
11. Unit price quoted on  the Designated Stock Exchanges at the beginning and end of the 
financial year, the highest and lowest unit price and the average daily volume traded during 
the financial year

[Page 151]
151 
 
12. 384[1]Details of all related party  transactions during the year  385[, value of which  exceeds 
five per cent of value of the REIT assets] 
386[2. Details regarding the monies lent by REIT to the holding company or the special 
purpose vehicle in which it has investment in.] 
13. Details of fund raising during the year, if any 
14. 387[***] 
388[14A. Brief details of material and price sensitive information] 
15. Brief details of material litigations and regulatory actions  389[which are] pending, against 
the REIT, 390[ sponsor(s), manager or any of their associates and sponsor group(s) and the 
trustee], if any, as at the end of the year  
16. Risk factors  
17. Information of the contact person of the REIT 
Mandatory annexure to the annual report 
1. Summary of full valuation report capturing key aspects of the report 
2. Auditor's report 
 
Mandatory disclosures in the Half-yearly report 
1. All details as provided above (other than clause (2) and mandatory annexures) for annual 
report for the previous half-year or as at the end of the half-year as applicable 
2. Financial statements for the half year; (Standalone and consolidated). If audited statements 
are not available, unaudited statements may be provided subject to disclosure to that effect 
3. Updated valuation report by the valuer taking into account any material developments 
during the previous half-year 
4. Any other material events during the half-year 
 
                                                 
384 Sub-claue number inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, 
w.e.f. 15.12.2017 
385 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 . 
386 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 15.12.2017  
387 Omitted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. Prior 
to its omission, paragraph 14 read as follows:  
“Brief report on corporate governance” 
388 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016 . 
389 Substituted “, whether completed or” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016. 
390 Substituted “ parties to the REIT or any of their associates ” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016.

[Page 152]
152 
 
SCHEDULE V 
[See Regulation 21(3)] 
MANDATORY MINIMUM DISCLOSURES IN FULL VALUATION REPORT 
The full valuation report shall include the following:  
a. Name and brief details of the valuer 
b. all material details in relation to the basis of valuation 
c. Description and explanation of the valuation methodologies adopted including key 
assumptions used, justification of the assumptions, explanation of the rationale for 
choosing the particular valuation method if more than one method is  or could have been 
adopted, etc.  
d. overall structure and condition of the relevant market including an analysis of the supply-
demand situation, the market trend and investment activities  
e. For every property, the following details 391[, to the extent applicable,] shall be 
mentioned:  
i. Address of the property, ownership and title details including whether the 
transaction is a related party transaction (Valuer may rely on the title disclosures 
provided by the manager for the purpose) 
ii. Location of the property (include latest pictures), formal site identification, physical 
features (e.g. size, configuration, frontage, topography)  site services, town 
planning, etc.  
iii. If the property is completed and revenue generating, the following shall be 
mentioned: 
1. the existing use of the property 
2. a brief description of the property including age of the building, the site area, 
392[developable area, leasable area, completed area, occupied area] etc. 
3. occupancy rate 
iv. In case of under-construction properties, the following shall be mentioned: 
1. Stage of completion of the property 
2. Statutory approvals received and pending as on date of valuation 
3. Approved use of the property as per approved construction plans 
                                                 
391 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
392 Substituted for the words “gross floor area, net lettable floor area” by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 153]
153 
 
v. the options or rights of pre-emption and other encumbrances concerning or affecting 
the property  
vi. the nature of the interest the REIT holds/proposes to hold in the property whether 
freehold or leasehold, percentage of interest of the REIT in the property, remainder 
of the term in case of leasehold property 
vii. Date of inspection and date of valuation 
viii. Qualifications and assumptions 
ix. Method used for valuation  
x. Valuation standards adopted for valuation of real estate assets 
xi. Extent of valuer's investigations and nature and source of data to be relied upon 
xii. Purchase price of the property by the REIT(for existing properties of the REIT) 
xiii. Valuation of the property in the previous 3 years;  (for existing properties of the 
REIT) 
xiv. Detailed valuation of the property as calculated by the valuer 
xv. Latest ready reckoner rate (as published by the state government)  
393[xvi. List of one-time sanctions/approvals which are obtained or pending 
xvii. List of up to date/overdue periodic clearances 
xviii. Statement of assets included 
xix. Estimates of already carried as well as proposed major repairs and 
improvements along with estimated time of completion 
xx. Revenue pendencies including local authority taxes associated with REIT asset 
and compounding charges, if any 
xxi. On-going 394[***] material litigations including tax disputes in relation to the 
assets, if any 
xxii. Vulnerability to natural or induced hazards that may not have been covered in 
town planning/ building control] 
f. any matters which may affect the property or its value  
g. a declaration by the valuer that: 
i. the valuer is competent to undertake the valuation 
ii. the valuer is independent and has prepared the report on a fair and unbiased basis 
                                                 
393 Inserted by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 30.11.2016  
394 Words “and closed” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (R eal Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 10.04.2018.

[Page 154]
154 
 
iii. the valuer has valued the properties based on the valuation standards as specified 
under sub-regulation 10 of 395[regulation 21] of these Regulations  
 
                                                 
395 Substituted for “regulation 20” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, 
w.e.f. 15.12.2017

[Page 155]
155 
 
SCHEDULE VI 
[See Regulation 7(d)] 
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR REIT AND PARTIES TO THE REIT 
1. REIT and parties to the REIT shall conduct all affairs of the REIT in the interest of all 
the unit-holders of the REIT.  
2. REIT and parties to the REIT shall make adequate, accurate, explicit  and timely 
disclosure of relevant material information to all unit holders, Designated Stock 
Exchanges and the Board in accordance with these Regulations and as may be 
specified by the Designated Stock Exchanges from time to time.  
3. REIT and parties to the REIT shall try to avoid conflicts of interest, as far as possible, 
in managing the affairs of the REIT and keep the interest of all unit holders paramount 
in all matters. In case such events  cannot be avoided, it shall be ensured that 
appropriate disclosures are made to the unit-holders and they are fairly treated.  
4. The REIT and parties to the REIT shall ensure that the fees charged by them with 
respect to activity of the REIT shall be fair and reasonable.  
5. Manager shall carry out the business of the REIT and invest in accordance with the 
investment objectives stated in the Offer document and take investment decisions 
solely in the interest of unit holders.  
6. REIT, parties to the REIT and any third party appointed by the manager shall not use 
any unethical means to sell, market or induce any person to buy units of the REIT and 
where a third party appointed by the manager fails to comply with this condition, the 
manager shall be held liable for the same.  
7. REIT and parties to the REIT shall maintain high standards of integrity and fairness in 
all their dealings and in the conduct of their business,  
8. REIT and parties to the REIT shall render at all times high standards of service, 
exercise due diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent professional 
judgment.  
9. REIT and parties to the REIT shall not make any exaggerated statement, whether oral 
or written, about their qualifications/capabilities/experience/ achievements.  
10. REIT and parties to the REIT shall be liable to the unit holders for their acts of 
commission or omissions, notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or 
agreement.

[Page 156]
156 
 
SCHEDULE VII 
[See Regulation 34] 
Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
Regulations, 2012 
In regulation 2, in sub -regulation (1), in clause (o), after the words “or body corporate” and 
before the words “in which an Alternative Investment Fund”, the words “ or real estate 
investment trust or infrastructure investment trust” shall be inserted. 
 
 
396[ SCHEDULE VIII: GOVERNANCE NORMS 
 
PART A: MINIMUM INFORMATION TO BE PLACED BEFORE 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE MANAGER 
[See Regulation 26B (4)] 
 
The following minimum information to be placed before Board of Directors of the manager: 
(a) annual operating plans and budgets and any updates. 
(b) capital budgets and any updates. 
(c) quarterly results for the REIT and its operating divisions or business segments. 
(d) minutes of meetings of audit committee and other committees of the Board of 
Directors of Manager. 
(e) the information on recruitment and remuneration of senior officers just below the 
level of Board of Directors, including appointment or removal of Chief Financial 
Officer and the Compliance Officer 
(f) show cause, demand, prosecution notices and penalty notices, which are materially 
important. 
(g) fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences, any material effluent or pollution 
problems. 
(h) any material default in financial obligations to and by the REIT, HoldCo. and/or SPV. 
                                                 
396 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board o f India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 01.04.2023.

[Page 157]
157 
 
(i) any issue, which involves possible public or product liability claims of substantial 
nature, including any judgement or order which, may have passed strictures on the 
conduct of the REIT, holdco, SPV or taken an adverse view regarding another 
enterprise that may have negative implications on the REIT. 
(j) details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement. 
(k) significant labour problems and their proposed solutions, any significant development 
in Human Resources/ Industrial Relations front like signing of wage agreement, 
implementation of Voluntary Retirement Scheme etc. 
(l) sale of investments, HoldCo. and/or SPV, assets which are material in nature and not 
in normal course of business. 
(m) quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by management to 
limit the risks of adverse exchange rate movement, if material. 
(n) non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory or listing requirements and unitholders 
service such as non-payment of distributions. 
(o) reports of tabletop exercises or workshops for identifying risks and vulnerabilities, 
and specifying risk mitigations and processes for addressing vulnerabilities. 
 
PART B: COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE  
 [See Regulation 26B (5)] 
 
The compliance certificate to be furnished by compliance officer, chief executive officer and 
chief financial officer shall state that: 
(a) they have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year and that 
to the best of their knowledge and belief: 
(i)  these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any 
material fact or contain statements that might be misleading; 
(ii)  these statements together present a true and fair view of the affairs of the REIT and 
are in compliance with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and 
regulations; 
(b) there are, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the 
manager on behalf of REIT during the year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative 
of the entity’s code of conduct; 
(c)  they accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial 
reporting and that they have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the

[Page 158]
158 
 
manager pertaining to financial reporting and they have disclosed to the auditors and the 
audit committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, 
of which they are aware and the steps they have taken or propose to take to rectify these 
deficiencies; 
(d) they have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee: 
(i)  significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year; 
(ii)  significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have 
been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements; and 
(iii)  instances of significant fraud of which they have become aware and the 
involvement therein, if any, of the management or an employee having a significant 
role in the manager’s internal control system over financial reporting of REIT.] 
 
397[Schedule IX : STEWARDSHIP CODE 
[See Regulation 4(2)(g)] 
 
The following principles of stewardship code shall be complied with by any unitholder holding 
not less than ten percent of the total outstanding units of the REIT:  
 
1. They must act in the best interests of the REIT and its unitholders as a whole; 
2. They should formulate a comprehensive policy on the discharge of their stewardship 
responsibilities, review and update the same periodically; 
3. They should have a policy to manage issues of conflict of interest while fulfilling their 
stewardship responsibilities;  
4. They should periodically monitor the REIT and its investee entities viz. HoldCo(s) and 
SPV(s); 
5. They should have a policy on intervention in the REIT and its HoldCo(s) and SPV(s); 
6. They should have a policy on voting.] 
  
                                                 
397 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 17.08.2023.

[Page 159]
159 
 
398[Schedule – X 
Part A - Minimum Provisions in Trust Deed 
[See regulation 17B (4)] 
The trust deed shall, inter alia, provide the following: 
1. Details of the trust, including: 
(i) Name of the trust; 
(ii) Object of the trust; 
(iii) Details of settlor; 
(iv) Details of scheme(s) administered; 
(v) Source(s) of funds; 
(vi) Description of the manner in which the trust funds shall be used for meeting 
the objects of the trust; 
(vii) Description of the classes of beneficiaries along with their rights and 
obligations; 
(viii) Details of trustee. 
2. Powers and duties of trustee, including: 
(i) To frame rules for administration of the scheme(s) in compliance with the 
scheme documents, object(s) of the trust and these regulations; 
(ii) To maintain books of account of the trust as required under law including these 
regulations; 
3. Mode and manner of dissolution of the trust; 
4. Duties of the trustee shall include that: 
(i) the trustee shall act in the interest of employees who are beneficiaries of the trust 
subject to provisions of these regulations, 
(ii) the trustee shall not act in any manner or include any provision in the trust deed 
that would be detrimental to the interests of the beneficiaries. 
5. Such other clauses that are necessary for safeguarding the interests of the 
beneficiaries and such other clauses that may be specified by the Board. 
 
 
 
                                                 
398 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 13.07.2024.

[Page 160]
160 
 
Part B - Terms and Conditions of schemes to be formulated by the Nomination 
and remuneration committee 
[See regulation 17F (2)] 
The nomination and remuneration committee is required to formulate the detailed terms 
and conditions of the schemes which shall, inter alia, include the following provisions: 
a. the quantum of options per employee and in aggregate under a scheme; 
b. the conditions under which options may vest in employees and may laps e in 
case of termination of employment for misconduct; 
c. the exercise period within which the employee can exercise the options and that 
options would lapse on failure to exercise the same within the exercise period; 
d. the specified time period within which th e employee shall exercise the vested 
options in the event of termination or resignation; 
e. the right of an employee to exercise all the options vested in him at one time or 
at various points of time within the exercise period; 
f. the procedure for making a fair  and reasonable adjustment to the entitlement 
including adjustment to the number of options and to the exercise price in case 
of any corporate actions. In this regard, the following shall, inter alia, be taken 
into consideration by the nomination and remuneration committee: 
i. the number and price of options shall be adjusted in a manner such that 
total value to the  employee of the options remains the same after the 
corporate action; 
ii. the vesting period and the life of the options shall be left unaltered as far 
as possible to protect the rights of the employee(s) who is granted such 
options; 
g. the grant, vesting and exercise of options in case of employees who are on long 
leave; and 
h. the procedure for funding the exercise of options 
 
 
Part C -Contents of the explanatory statement to the notice and resolution for 
unitholders meeting 
[See regulations 17G(4) and 17K(9)] 
The explanatory statement to the notice and the resolution proposed to be passed for 
the unit  based employee benefit schemes shall, inter alia , contain the following

[Page 161]
161 
 
information: 
a. brief description of the scheme(s); 
b. the total number of options to be offered and granted; 
c. identification of classes of employees entitled to participate and be beneficiaries 
in the scheme(s); 
d. requirements of vesting and period of vesting; 
e. maximum period (subject to these regulations) within which the options shall 
be vested; 
f. exercise price, purchase price or pricing formula; 
g. exercise period/offer period and process of exercise/ acceptance of offer; 
h. the appraisal process  for determining the eligibility of employees for the 
scheme(s); 
i. maximum number of options to be offered and issued per employee and in 
aggregate, if any; 
j. maximum quantum of benefits to be provided per employee under a scheme(s); 
k. whether the scheme(s) invo lves new issue of units by the REIT or gift or 
secondary acquisition by the trust or all; 
l. maximum percentage of secondary acquisition (subject to limits specified under 
the regulations) that can be made by the trust for the purposes of the scheme(s); 
m. a sta tement to the effect that the manager shall conform to the accounting 
policies specified in regulation 17K(7); 
n. the method which the manager shall use to value the options; 
o. o. period of lock-in. 
 
 
Part D - Information required in the statement to be filed with recognised 
Stock Exchange(s) 
[See regulation 17H(1)(b)] 
Description of Schemes 
1. Unit Capital of the REIT as on date of institution of the scheme/ amendment of 
the scheme. 
2. Date of institution of the scheme/ amendment of the scheme. 
3. Validity period of the scheme. 
4. Date of notice of unitholders meeting for approving the scheme/for amending

[Page 162]
162 
 
the scheme/for approving grants under regulation 22(6)(m) of these regulations. 
5. Date of unitholders meeting approving the scheme/amending the 
scheme/approving grants under regulation 22(6)(m) of these regulations. 
6. Kinds of benefit granted under the scheme. 
7. Identity of classes of persons eligible under the scheme: 
(a) Employees, 
(b) employees outside India, 
(c) directors, except independent directors. 
8. Total number of units reserved under the scheme, as applicable. 
9. Number of units entitled under the grant. 
10. Total number of grants to be made. 
11. Maximum number of options to be granted per employee per grant and in 
aggregate. 
12. Exercise price or pricing formula. 
13. Whether any amount is payable at the time of grant? If so, quantum of such 
amount. 
14. Lock-in period under the scheme. 
15. Vesting period under the scheme. 
16. Maximum period within which the grant shall be vested. 
17. Exercise period under the scheme. 
18. Whether employee can exercise all the options vested at one time? Yes/No 
19. Whether employee can exercise vested options at various points of time within 
the exercise period? Yes/No 
20. Whether scheme provides for the procedure for making a fair and reasonable 
adjustment to the  number of options and to the e xercise price in case of any 
corporate actions? Clause in scheme describing such adjustment.  
21. Description of the appraisal process for determining the eligibility of employees 
under the scheme. 
22. The specified time period within which vested options are to be exercised in the 
event of termination or resignation of an employee. 
23. The specified time period within which options to be exercised in the event of 
death of the employee.  
24. Whether the scheme provides for conditions under which options vested in 
employees may lapse in case of termination of employment for misconduct?

[Page 163]
163 
 
Clause in Scheme describing such adjustment.  
25. Whether scheme provides for conditions for the grant, vesting and exercise of 
options in case of  employees who are on long leave? Clause in scheme  
describing such adjustment. 
26. Whether amount paid/payable by the employee at the time of the grant, vesting 
or exercise of the options will be forfeited if the employee does not exercise the 
same within the exercise period? Clause in scheme describing such adjustment.  
27. Details of approval of unitholders pursuant to sub -regulation (6) of regulation 
22 of these regulations with respect to: 
(a) Grant to identified employees, during any one year, equal to or exceeding 
1% of the unit capital of the REIT at the time of grant. 
28. Details of the variation made to the scheme along with the rationale therefor and 
the details of the employees who are beneficiary of such variation: 
 
Sd/- 
Company Secretary / Compliance Officer 
Place: 
Date: 
 
Documents to be filed with registration statement 
1. Copy of scheme, certified by the Company Secretary / Compliance Officer. 
2. Copy of notice of unitholder meeting approving the scheme/for amending the 
scheme/for approving grants under 22(6)(m) of these regulations certified by 
the Company Secretary / Compliance Officer. 
3. Copy of resolution of unitholders for approving the scheme/ for amending the 
scheme/for approving grants under sub-regulation (6) of regulation 22 of these 
regulations certified by the Company Secretary / Compliance Officer. 
4. List of sponsors as defined under these regulations. 
5. Copy of latest Annual Report of the REIT. 
6. Certificate of Secretarial Auditor on compliance with these regulations. 
7. Specimen copy of unit certificate, if applicable. 
8. Any other relevant documents.

[Page 164]
164 
 
Undertakings 
The undersigned investment manager hereby undertakes: 
1. To file, a post -effective amendment to this statement to include any material 
information with respect to the scheme of distribution not previously disclosed in 
the statement or any material change to such information in the statement. 
2. To notify, the concerned recognised stock exchanges on which the units of the 
REIT are listed, of each issue of units pursuant to the exercise of options under the 
scheme mentioned in this  statement, in the s pecified form, as amended from time 
to time. 
3. That the investment manager shall conform to the accounting policies specified 
in regulation 17K(7) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 
4. That the scheme confirms to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real 
Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 
5. That the investment manager has in place systems / codes / procedures to comply 
with the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Insider Trad ing) Regulations, 
2015 or any modification or re-enactment thereto. 
 
Signatures 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (15 of 1992) and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, the investment manager certifies that it has 
reasonable grounds to believe that it meets all the requirements for the filing of this 
form and has duly caused this statement to be signed on its behalf  by the 
undersigned, thereunto, duly authorized.  
 
Name of the investment manager 
Name of the Compliance Officer 
Designation 
Date: 
Place:

[Page 165]
165 
 
Part E - Format of notification for issue of units 
[See regulation 17H (1)(c)] 
 
1.  Name of REIT and address of Registered Office : 
2.  Name of the recognised Stock Exchanges on which the units of REIT are listed: 
3.  Filing  date  of  the  statement  referred  in  regulation  17 H(1)(b)  of  the  Securities  
and Exchange  Board  of  India  Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 with 
the recognised Stock Exchange : 
4.  Filing Number, if any : 
5.  Title of the Scheme pursuant to which units are issued, if any: 
6.  Kind of security to be listed : 
7.  Date of issue of units  : 
8.  Number of units issued : 
9.  Unit Certificate No., if applicable : 
10. Distinctive number of the units, if applicable : 
11. ISIN Number of the units  : 
12. Exercise price per unit: 
13. Total issued units  after this issue : 
14. Total issued unit capital after this issue : 
15. Details of any lock-in on the units  : 
16. Date of expiry of lock-in : 
17. Details of listing fees, if payable: 
 
Signature of Company Secretary/Compliance Officer 
 
Date:  
Place:

[Page 166]
166 
 
Part F - Disclosures in the annual report of the REIT 
[See regulation 17L (1)] 
The manager in the annual report of the REIT shall disclose any material change in 
the scheme(s) and whether the scheme(s) is / are in compliance with the regulations. 
Further, the following details, inter alia, shall be disclosed on the REIT’s website 
and a     web-link thereto shall be provided in the annual report. 
A. Relevant disclosures in terms of the  accounting standards prescribed  by the 
Central Government in terms of section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 
2013) including  the 'Guidance note on accounting for employee share-based 
payments' issued in that regard from time to time. 
 
B. Details related to Unit Option Scheme 
(i) A description of each unit option scheme that existed at any time during the 
year, including the general terms and conditions of each unit option scheme, 
including - 
(a) Date of unitholders' approval 
(b) Total number of options approved under unit option scheme  
(c) Vesting requirements 
(d) Exercise price or pricing formula 
(e) Maximum term of options granted 
(f) Source of units (primary, secondary, gift or combination) 
(g) Variation in terms of options 
(ii) Method used to account for unit option scheme  - Intrinsic or fair value. 
(iii) Option movement during the year (For each unit option scheme): 
 
Particulars 
 
Details 
 
Number of options outstanding at the beginning of the period 
 
 
Number of options granted during the year

[Page 167]
167 
 
 
(iv) Weighted-average exercise prices and weighted-average fair values of options 
shall be  disclosed separately for options whose exercise price either equals or 
exceeds or is less  than the market price of the units. 
(v) Employee wise details (name of employee, designation, number of options 
granted during the year, exercise price) of options granted to - 
(a) senior managerial personnel as defined under clause (d) of sub-regulation 
(1) of regulation 16 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015; 
(b) any other employee who receives a grant in any one year of option 
amounting to 5% or more of option granted during that year; and 
(c) identified employees who were granted option, during any one year, 
equal to or exceeding 1% of the unit capital of the REIT at the time of 
grant. 
(vi) A description of the method and significant assumptions used during the year 
to estimate the fair value of options including the following information: 
(a) the weighted -average values of unit price, exercise price, expected 
volatility, expected option life, expected dividends, the risk-free interest 
rate and any other  inputs to the model; 
(b) the method used and the assumptions made to incorporate the effects of   
expected early exercise; 
(c) how expected volatility was determined, including an explanation of the 
Number of options forfeited / lapsed during the year 
 
Number of options vested during the year 
 
 
Number of options exercised during the year 
 
 
Number of units  arising as a result of exercise of options 
 
 
Number of options outstanding at the end of the year 
 
 
Number of options exercisable at the end of the year

[Page 168]
168 
 
extent to which expected volatility was based on historical volatility; and 
(d) whether and how any other features of the options granted were 
incorporated into the measurement of  fair value, such as a  market 
condition. 
C. Details related to Trust 
(i) The following details, inter alia, in connection with transactions made by the Trust 
meant for the purpose of administering the schemes under the regulations are to be 
disclosed: 
(ii) General information on all schemes 
 
Sl. No. 
 
Particulars 
 
Details 
1. Name of the Trust  
2. Details of the Trustee  
3. Any other contribution made to the 
Trust during the year 
 
 
(iii) Brief details of transactions in units by the Trust 
(a) Number of units  held at the beginning of the year; 
(b) Number of units  acquired during the year through (i) primary issuance 
(ii) secondary acquisition, also as a percentage of unit capital as at the end 
of     the previous  financial year, along with information on weighted 
average cost of acquisition per unit; 
(c) Number of units  transferred to the employees; 
(d) Number of units held at the end of the year. 
(iv) In case of secondary acquisition of units by the Trust 
 
Number of Units 
 
As a percentage of unit capital as at the end 
of the year immediately preceding the year 
in which unitholders' approval was 
obtained

[Page 169]
169 
 
Held at the beginning of the year 
 
Acquired during the year 
 
Transferred to the employees during 
the  year 
 
 
Held at the end of the year 
 
 
Part G - Disclosure Document 
[See regulations 17K(6)] 
A: Statement of Risks 
All investments in units or options are subject to risk as the value of units may 
increase or reduce. In addition, the options /are subject to the following additional 
risks: 
1. Concentration: The risk arising out of any fall in value of units is 
aggravated if the employee's holding is concentrated in the units of a single 
REIT. 
2. Leverage: Any change in the value of the unit may lead to a significantly 
larger change in the value of the options. 
3. Illiquidity: The options cannot be transferred to anybody, and therefore the 
employees cannot mitigate their risks by selling the whole or part of their 
benefits before they are exercised. 
4. Vesting: The options will lapse if the employment is terminated prior to 
vesting. Even after the options are vested, the unexercised options may be 
forfeited if the employee is terminated for gross misconduct. 
 
B: Information about the REIT 
1. Business of the REIT: A description of the main objects and present 
business of the REIT. 
2. Abridged financial information: Abridged financial information, for the 
last five years  for which audited financial information is available, as specified 
by the Board from  time to time. The last audited accounts of the REIT shall

[Page 170]
170 
 
also be provided unless  this has already been provided to the employee in 
connection with a previous option or grant or otherwise. 
3. Risk Factors: Management perception of the risk factors for the REIT  
4. Continuing disclosure requirement: The option grantee shall be provided  
copies of all documents that are sent to the unitholders of the REIT. This shall 
include the annual accounts of the REIT as well as notices of meetings and the 
accompanying explanatory statements. 
 
C: Salient Features of the Scheme 
This Part shall contain the salient features of the scheme of the manager including 
the conditions regarding vesting, exercise, adjustment for corporate actions, and 
forfeiture of vested options. It shall not be necessary to include this Part if it has 
already been provided to the employee in connection with a previous grant and no 
changes have taken place in the scheme since then. If the scheme administrator   
provides advisory services to the grantees in connection with the exercise of 
options or sale of resulting units, such advice shall be accompanied by an 
appropriate disclosure of concentration and other risks. The scheme administrator 
shall conform to the code of conduct appropriate for such fiduciary relationships. ] 
 
399[Schedule – XI 
Illustrative List of conditions 
[See Regulation 18 (5B)]  
a) The business of REIT shall be leasing out such assets and not operating such 
assets.  
b) REIT along with its HoldCo(s) and SPV(s)  shall carry no risk or return of the 
operating model directly or indirectly in any form or manner. 
c) The income from such asset should be fixed rental income from leasing out such 
asset and not operating income from such asset. 
d) The lease tenure on such assets should be long term in nature. 
e) The rentals generated on such assets should be based on leasable area. 
                                                 
399 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 23.04.2025.

[Page 171]
171 
 
f) The assets should be leased out in cold shell conditions or in warm shell 
conditions with basic utilities only. 
g) The license for operation of such assets shall not be in the name of the REIT, its 
HoldCo or SPV. 
 
 Schedule XII 
Illustrative Roles and Responsibilities of Trustees 
[See regulation 9(19)] 
1. Asset Management Oversight: 
The trustee shall: 
i.  conduct regular physical inspections of REIT assets; and  
ii.  supervise the maintenance and compliance of assets with safety and operational 
standards. 
2. Regulatory Compliance and Reporting: 
i.  The trustee shall p rovide periodic confirmations to SEBI that trustees have not 
engaged in transactions involving the units of the REIT they manage. 
ii.  The trustee shall e nsure that the manager submits information to the trustees 
including: 
a) List of unitholders on quarterly basis; 
b) Shareholding of REIT in SPV, HoldCo and Investment entity and changes if 
any on a quarterly basis; 
c) Confirmation on compliance with leverage limit on a quarterly basis and at 
the time of acquisition and disposal of assets; 
d) Trustee may request for due diligence report or such other information in 
respect of any acquisition; 
e) Net worth compliance certificate from manager on a half yearly basis; 
f) Net worth compliance certificate of sponsor and manager from practicing 
Chartered Accountant on an annual basis; and 
g) Confirmation on the details of unclaimed distributions till the previous 
quarter. 
iii.  The trustee shall ensure that the distribution of net distributable cash flow has been 
made by the manager in accordance with these regulations and the trust deed.

[Page 172]
172 
 
iv.  Where the trustee has reason to believe that the conduct of business of the REIT is 
not in accordance with these regulations they shall forthwith take such r emedial 
steps as are necessary by them and shall immediately inform the unitholders and 
the Board of the violation and the action taken by them. 
3. Managerial Oversight: 
i.  The trustee shall hold annual and as -needed meetings with the manager's senior 
management and the chairperson of the audit committee. 
4. Information and Documentation: 
The trustee shall:  
i.  request and review detailed reports and documents from the manager regarding the 
operational, financial, and compliance status. 
ii.  require managers to provide due diligence reports, net worth compliance 
certificates, and confirmations of unclaimed distributions. 
5. Record-Keeping: 
The trustee shall: 
i.  seek necessary records maintained by the manager for compliance with sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 26 of these regulations. 
ii.  maintain comprehensive and systematic records of all trustee activities, decisions, 
and notable transactions to ensure accountability and ease of audit. 
6. Ethics and Conflict of Interest: 
The trustee shall: 
i.  ensure that the manager has not given any undue or unfair advantage to any 
associates or dealt with any of  the associates of the manager in any manner 
detrimental to interest of the unitholders; 
ii.  ensure that there is no conflict of interest between the manner of deployment of its 
net worth by the manager and the interest of the unitholders; 
iii.  ensure that the manager manag es the REIT and schemes of SM REIT 
independently of other activities and have taken adequate steps to ensure that the 
interest of investors of one scheme of SM REIT are not being com promised with 
those of any other scheme of SM REIT or of other activities of the REIT or the 
Manager; and 
iv.  abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Schedule VI of these regulations. 
7. Auditing and Financial Review: 
The trustee shall:

[Page 173]
173 
 
i.  be accountable for, and be the custodian of, the funds and property of the respective 
REIT and shall hold the same in trust for the benefit of the unitholders in 
accordance with these regulations and the provisions of trust deed; and 
ii.  review the net worth of the manager on a half-yearly basis to ensure compliance 
with the threshold provided in these regulations on a continuous basis. 
8. Due Diligence: 
i.  The trustee shall exercise due diligence as under: 
A. General Due Diligence: 
The trustee shall: 
a) be discerning in the appointment  of the directors on the Board of the 
manager; 
b) review the desirability or continuance of the  manager if substantial  
irregularities  are  observed  in the REIT or any  of  the  schemes of SM 
REIT and shall not allow the manager to float new schemes of SM REIT; 
c) ensure that the trust property is properly protected, held and administered 
by proper persons and by a proper number of such persons; 
d) ensure   that   all   service   providers   are   holding   appropriate registrations 
from the Board or the concerned regulatory authority; 
e) arrange for test checks of service contracts; and 
f) immediately report to the Board of any special developments in the trust. 
B. Specific due diligence: 
The trustee shall: 
a) obtain audit reports of the m anager and the REIT, its HoldCos a nd SPVs at 
regular intervals from auditors appointed by the manager; 
b) obtain secretarial compliance reports from the manager; 
c) consider the reports of the auditor and secretarial compliance reports of REIT 
at their board meetings for appropriate action; 
d) review the activity of the REIT on a quarterly basis and place the report of 
the same before their Board of directors; 
e) consider the reports of the auditor and compliance reports of manager at their 
board meetings for appropriate action; 
f) maintain records and mi nutes of the Board of directors’ meetings of the 
trustee for the review of information pertaining to the REIT;

[Page 174]
174 
 
g) prescribe and adhere to a code of ethics by the trustee, manager and its 
personnel; and 
h) communicate in writing to the manager of the deficiencies  and check on 
necessary measures taken by manager for the rectification of deficiencies. 
ii.  The trustee shall also exercise due diligence on such matters as may be specified 
by the Board from time to time.] 
 
U.K. SINHA 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

[Page 175]
175 
 
Note: 
 
1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 was published in the Gazette of India on September 26, 2014 vide 
notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/11/1576. 
 
2. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 was amended on – 
a) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, vide No. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016 -17/022, 
with effect from November 30, 2016. 
 
b) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2017, vide No. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/38, with 
effect from March 6, 2017.  
 
c) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2017, vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2017-18/022, 
with effect from December 15, 2017. 
 
d) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2018/06, with 
effect from April 10, 2018. 
 
e) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2019/09, with 
effect from April 22, 2019. 
 
f) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020, vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2020/06, with 
effect from March 02, 2020.

[Page 176]
176 
 
g) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2020/10, with effect from April 
17, 2020. 
 
h) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2020, vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2020/16 with 
effect from June 16, 2020. 
 
i) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Es tate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2021/28 with 
effect from                         July 30, 2021. 
 
j) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2021/30 with effect from                       
August 03, 2021. 
 
k) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2022/100 with 
effect from                 November 9, 2022. 
 
l) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. LAD -NRO/GN/2023/123 with effect 
from                   February 14, 2023. 
 
m) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Mechanism) (Amendment) Regu lations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2023/137 with effect from July 4, 2023. 
 
n) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. LAD -NRO/GN/2023/144 with effect 
from August 16, 2023.

[Page 177]
177 
 
o) Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Facilitation  of  Grievance  Redressal  
Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2023/146 with effect from August 18, 2023. 
 
p) Securities and Exchange Board of Indi a (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2023/160 with 
effect from October 23, 2023. 
 
q) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 202 4 vide No.  SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/166 with 
effect from                         March 8, 2024. 
 
r) Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts)  
(Second  Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/193 
with effect from July 13, 2024. 
 
s) Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts)  (Third  
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2024/208 with 
effect from September 28, 2024. 
 
t) Securities  and   Exchange  Board  of  India  (Investor  Charter)  (Amendment)  
Regulations,  2025  vide notification  No. SEBI/LAD -NRO/GN/2025/228 with 
effect from February 10, 2025. 
 
u) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regul ations, 2025  vide notification  No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/241 with effect from April 23, 2025. 
 
v) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) ( Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/258 with effect from September 03, 2025. 
 
w) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) ( Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/287 with effect from December 11, 2025.

[Page 178]
178 
 
x) Securities and Exchange Bo ard of India (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 202 6 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/302 with effect from April 18, 2026. 
 
***
