[Page 1]
1[SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  
(ISSUE AND LISTING OF SECURITISED DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND SECURITY 
RECEIPTS) REGULATIONS, 2008] 
 
                                     [Amended up to July 6, 2026] 
 
No. LAD-NRO/GN/2008/12/126567 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 31 read 
with section 17A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) and section 
30 read with sections 11 and 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 
of 1992), the Securities and Exchange Board of In dia hereby makes the following 
Regulations, namely:-  
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY  
Short title and commencement.  
1. (1) These Regulations shall be called the 2[Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Issue 
and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008].  
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Officia l Gazette. 
Definitions.  
2. (1) In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:-  
(a) “Act” means the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);  
3[(aa) “advertisement” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause  (c) of sub-regulation (1) 
of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Issue and Listing of Non-
Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021]; 
(b) “asset pool”, in relation to a scheme of a special purpose distinct entity, means the total 
debt or receivables, assigned to such entity and in which investors of such scheme have 
beneficial interest; 
4[(ba) “asset reconstruction company” shall have the meaning assigned to it under clause (ba) 
of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction o f Financial Assets 
and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002;]  
(c) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act (15 of 1992);  
(d) “certificate” means a certificate of registration granted to a trustee under 5[the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993];  
6[(da) “control” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (e) of sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Substantial Acquisition of 
Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;] 
                                                 
1 Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under :  
“Securities and Exchange Board of Indi a ( Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments ) 
Regulations, 2008.” 
2 Ibid 
3 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. 
4 Inserted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018 
5 Substituted for “these regulations” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 2]
(e) “clean-up call option” means an option retained and exercisable by the originator to 
purchase the debt or receivables assigned to a special purpose distinct enti ty, if the 
residual value of such debt or receivables falls below a specified percentage of the price at 
which it was assigned;  
(f) “credit enhancement” means any arrangement intended to decrease the likelihood of 
default on the securitised debt instruments, including subordination, insurance, letter of 
credit, over-collateralisation, undertakings and guarantees;  
(g) “debt” or “receivables” means any right that generates or results into a cash flow and 
includes-  
(i) mortgage debt ;  
7[(ii) any financial asset originated by an originator regulated by the Reserve Bank of 
India: 
Provided that the special purpose distinct entity shall ensure that such originators shall 
not undertake the securitisation activities or assume securitisation exposures mentioned 
below: 
(a) Re-securitisation exposures; 
(b) Structures in which short term instruments such as commercial paper, which are 
periodically rolled over, are issued against long term assets held by a special purpose 
distinct entity; 
(c) Synthetic securitisation; and 
(d) Securitisation with the following assets as underlying: 
i. revolving credit facilities as underlying which involve underlying exposures 
where the borrower is permitted to vary the drawn amount and repayments within 
an agreed limit under a line of credit (e.g. credit car d receivables and cash credit 
facilities); 
ii. Restructured loans and advances which are in the specified period; 
iii. Exposures to other lending institutions; 
iv. Refinance exposures of All India Financial Institutions; 
v. Loans with  options of  bullet pay ments of both principal and interest as 
underlying; and 
vi. Loans with residual maturity of less than three hundred and sixty five days: 
Provided that loans with tenor up to twenty four months extended to individuals for 
agricultural activities [as described in Chapter III of the Reserve Bank of India (Priority 
Sector Lending – Targets and Classification) Directions, 2020 ] where both interest and 
principal are due only on maturity and trade receivables with tenor up to twelve 
months, discounted or purchased by lenders from their borrowers shall be eligible for 
securitization: 
                                                                                                                                                        
6 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. 
7 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security R eceipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to its substitution, the 
regulation read as under:  
“(ii) such receivables arising out of securities as may be specified by the Board; ”

[Page 3]
Provided further that only those loans or receivables shall be eligible for securitisation 
where a borrower (in case of agricultural loans)  or a drawee of the bill (in case of trade 
receivables) has fully repaid the entire amount of last two loans  or receivables (one 
loan, in case of agricultural loans with maturity extending beyond one year) within 
ninety days of the due date.  
Explanation: ─ In case such assets are securitised , the investors in the securitisation 
notes issued against them should be able to verify the compliance of the underlying 
asset with the above requirement. 
(iii) equipment leasing receivables; 
(iv) listed debt securities; 
(v)  trade receivables (arising from bills or invoices duly accepted by the obligors); 
(vi) rental receivables; and 
(vii) such debt or receivable including sustainable securitised debt instruments as notified 
by the Board: 
Provided that all such debts or receivables shall arise from written contractual obligations 
or written contracts: 
Provided further  that no other debt or receivable (including unlisted debt securities or 
other securities or instruments or assets) shall be permitted  to be an underlying for a 
securitised debt instrument: 
Provided further that re-securitisation and synthetic securitisation shall not be permitted.] 
8[(viii)] any financial asset within the meaning of clause (l) of sub -section (1) of section 2 
of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security 
Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002);  
(h) 9[“investor” – 
(i) with respect to “securities debt instrument” means any person holding any 
securitised debt instrument which acknowledges the interest of such person in the 
debt or receivables assigned to the special purpose distinct entity; and 
(ii) with respect to “security receipts” means a qualified buyer holding security 
receipts which acknowledges the interest in the financial asset assigned to the 
issuer;”] 
(i) 10[“issue” means an –  
(i) offer of securitised debt instruments by a special purpose distinct entity or under 
any scheme of such entity to the public or to any person(s), which is proposed to 
be listed on a recognised stock exchange; or 
                                                 
8 Renumbered as sub -clause (viii) by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
9 Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under :  
“(h) “investor”  means  a  person  holding  any  securitised  debt  instrument  which acknowledges  the  interest  
of  such  person  in  the  debt  or  receivables  assigned  to  the  special purpose distinct entity;” 
10  Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under :  
“(i) “issu e” means an offer of securitised debt instruments by a special purpose distinct entity or under any 
scheme of such entity to the public or to any person(s), which is proposed to be listed on a recognised stock 
exchange;”

[Page 4]
(ii) offer of security receipts by a trust set up by an asset reconstruction company or 
under any scheme of such trust to the qualified buyers, which are proposed to be 
listed on a recognised stock exchange;]  
[(ia)   “issuer” in context of security receipts, shall be a trust set up by the asset reconstruction 
company in terms of guidelines/regulations as provided by the Reserve Bank of India, and 
have issued or proposes to issue security receipts;]11 
(j) “liquidity provider” means a person who agrees to provide funds to the special 
purpose distinct entity for settlement of payments due to investors in accordance with the 
schedule of payments contained in the terms of issue of the securitised debt instrumen ts 
issued to them, in the event of any short term cash flow shortfalls of the special purpose 
distinct entity;  
12[(ja) “minimum holding period” means the minimum period for which a originator shall hold 
the debt or receivable before the same is assigned to  a special purpose distinct entity for the 
purpose of securitisation;] 
(k) “obligor” means a person who is liable, whether under a contract or otherwise, to pay 
a debt or receivables or to discharge any obligation in respect of a debt or receivables;  
(l) 13[“offer document” means any –  
(i) document including an electronic document described or issued as an offer 
document or prospectus and includes any notice, circular, advertisement or other 
document inviting subscription from the public or purchase of any securitised debt 
instruments of a scheme formulated under these regulations; or 
(ii) a document including an electronic document, inviting subscription for the security 
receipts from the qualified buyers on private placement basis;]  
14[(la)   “offer for sale” in context of security receipt, shall mean an offer of security receipts 
by the existing holders of security receipts to other qualified buyers;”] 
(m) “originator” means the assignor of debt or receivables to a special purpose distinct 
entity for the purpose of securitisation;  
15[(ma) “private placement offer” in context of security receipts, shall mean an offer of 
security receipts by a trust setup by an asset reconstruction company to a qualified 
buyer(s) for subscription and includes an offer for sale of security recei pts by an 
existing investor(s) of such security receipts to other qualified buyers;] 
16[(mb) “qualified buyer” shall have the same meaning assigned to it in clause (u) of sub -
section (1) of section 2 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and 
Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002;] 
(n) “recognised stock exchange” means any stock exchange which is recognised under 
section 4 of the Act;  
                                                 
11 Inserted by the SEBI (Public Offe r and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
12 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
13  Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under :  
 “offer document” means any document  including an electronic document described or issued as an offer 
document or prospectus and includes any notice, circular, advertisement or other document inviting subscription 
from the public or purchase of any securitised debt instruments of a scheme fo rmulated under these 
regulations;” 
14 Inserted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
15 Ibid 
16 Ibid

[Page 5]
(o) “regulated activity”, in relation to a special purpose distinct entity, means any of its 
activities which are regulated by the Board under the Act and these regulations and 
includes making a public offer of securitised debt instruments, making disclosures in 
connection with such issue, the performance of obligations relating to public offer or 
listing and redemption of such instruments, management and administration of the 
schemes under which such instruments are issued, valuation and maintenance of 
accounts which have a bearing on value of such instruments, and any other related 
activity as may be specified by the Board;  
(p) [“scheme” means a scheme for issue of securitised debt instruments in accordance with 
these regulations or for issue of security receipts under Securitisation and Reconstruction 
of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 and/or 
regulations/guidelines as provided by the Reserve Bank of India and are proposed to be 
listed on a recognised stock exchange under these regulations;]17  
(q) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to these regulations;  
(r) “securitisation” means acq uisition of debt or receivables by any special purpose distinct 
entity from any originator or originators for the purpose of issuance of securitised debt 
instruments to investors based on such debt or receivables and such issuance;  
(s) “securitised debt instr ument” means any certificate or instrument, by whatever name 
called, of the nature referred to in sub -clause (ie) of clause (h) of section 2 of the Act 
issued by a special purpose distinct entity; 
18[(sa) “security receipt” shall have the same meaning assig ned to it in clause (zg) of sub -
section  (1) of section 2 of Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and 
Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002;]  
(t) “servicer” means any person appointed by the special purpose distinct entity and who is 
responsible for the management or collection of the asset pool or making allocations or 
distributions to holders of the securtitised debt instrument in accordance with these 
regulations but does not include a trustee for the issuer if the trustee receives suc h 
allocations or distributions;  
(u) “special purpose distinct entity” means a trust which acquires debt or receivables out of 
funds mobilized by it by issuance of securitised debt instruments through one or more 
schemes, and includes any trust set up by the N ational Housing Bank under the National 
Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987) or by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural 
Development under the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981 
(61 of 1981);  
(v) [“sponsor” means –  
(i) any person who establishes or promotes a special purpose distinct entity for the 
purposes of issuance of Securitised debt instrument; or 
(ii) an asset reconstruction company who has established/promoted a trust which has 
issued security receipts;]19 
(w)  “trustee” means a trustee of a special purpose distinct entity;  
                                                 
17  Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under :  
 “(p) “scheme” means a scheme for issue of securitised debt instruments in accordance with these regulations;” 
18 Inserted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
19  Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under :  
“(v) “sponsor” means any person who establishes or promotes a special purpose distinct entity;”

[Page 6]
20[(wa) “valuer” means any person who is a "registered valuer" under section 247 of the 
Companies Act, 2013;] 
(x)  “working days” means working days of the Board.  
 
21[(2) Words and expressions not defined in these Regulations, but defined in or under the Act 
or the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) or the regulations made 
thereunder or the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or the Securitisation and Reconstruction 
of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002) or any 
applicable rules or regulations made by the Reserve Bank of India  from time to time, or any 
statutory modification or re -enactment thereof, shall have t he same meaning as have been 
assigned to them by or under those enactments, unless the context requires otherwise.]  
 
Applicability.   
3. These regulations shall apply to-  
(a) public offers of securitised debt instruments; [ ]22   
(b) to listing of securitised debt instruments issued to public or any person(s), on a recognised 
stock exchange; [or]23 
[(c) to listing of security receipts issued to qualified buyer(s) on a recognized stock exchange 
in terms of Chapter VIIA, Chapter VIII and Chapter X.]24 
 
CHAPTER II  
25[TRUSTEES]  
Eligibility criteria for trustees.  
4. (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, no person shall make a public 
offer of securitised debt instruments or seek listing for such securitised debt instruments 
unless –  
(a) it is constituted as a special purpose distinct entity;  
(b) all its trustees are registered with the Board under 26[the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993]; and  
(c) it complies with all applicable provisions of these reg ulations and the Act  
27[:]  
                                                 
20 Inserted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
21  Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under :  
“(2) Words and expressions not defined in these Regulations, but defined in or under the Act or the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) or the regulations made thereunder or the Companies Act, 
1956 (1 of 1 956) or the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security 
Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002) or any statutory modification or re -enactment thereof, shall have the same 
meaning as have been assigned to them by or under those enactments, unless the context requires otherwise 
22 Omitted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its omission, it read as “or”. 
23 Inserted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
24 Ibid. 
25 Substituted for “ REGISTRATION OF TRUSTEES ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Securitised  Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 
05, 2025. 
26 Substituted for “these regulations” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 7]
28[Provided that an entity already registered with the Board as trustee 
under these regulations as on the date of coming into force of this 
amendment, shall continue to act as trustee of such special purpose distinct 
entity;] 
 (2) 29[***] 
 (2A)30 [***] 
(3) 31[***] 
(4) 32[***]  
                                                                                                                                                        
27 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025  
28 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
29 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt  Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to its omission, the regulation 
read as { clause (e), (f) and (g) were inserted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. April 9, 2015}:  
“(2) The requirement of obtaining registration shall not apply to the following persons, who may act as trustees 
of special purpose distinct entities, namely:-  
(a) any person registered as a debenture trustee with the Board;  
(b) any person registered as a securitisation company or a reconstruction company with the Reserve Bank of 
India under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 
2002 (54 of 2002);  
(c) the National Housing Bank established by the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987);  
(d) the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development established by the National Bank for Agriculture 
and Rural Development Act, 1981 (61 of 1981):  
 
Provided that the aforesaid persons and special purpose distinct entities in respect of which they are trustees 
shall comply with all other provisions of these regulations:  
Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall not apply to the National H ousing Bank and the 
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development to the extent of inconsistency with the provisions of their 
respective Acts. 
 (e) any scheduled commercial bank other than a regional rural bank;  
(f) any public financial Institution as defined under clause (72) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; and  
(g) any other person as may be specified by Board” 
30 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Sub -regulation (2A) was inserted by 
the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. 
April 9, 2015, and prior to its omission, the regulation read as:  
“(2A) An applicant seeking registration to act as a trustee shall,-  
(a) have a networth of not less than two crore rupees.  
Explanation.─ For the purposes of this regulation, "networth" means the aggregate value of paid up share capital 
plus free reserves (excluding reserves created out of revaluation) reduced by the aggregate value of accumulated 
losses and deferred expenditure not written off;  
(b) have in its employment a minimum of two persons who, between them, have atleast five years experience in 
activities related to securitisation and atleast one among them shall have a professional qualification in law from 
any university or institution recognised by the Central Government or any State Government or a foreign 
university:  
Provided that the above -said requirements are not applicable on the National Housing Bank established by the 
National Housing Bank Act, 1987 and National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development established by the 
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981 ( 61 of 1981).” 
31 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to its omission, the regulation 
read as under:  
“(3) An application for registration shall be made by the trustee to the Board in Form A of Schedule I along 
with non-refundable application fees as specified in Schedule II.”

[Page 8]
(5) 33[***]]  
 
Factors for consideration  
5. 34[***] 
 
Procedure for granting registration, etc.  
6. 35[***] 
 
Conditions of registration.  
                                                                                                                                                        
32 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to its omission, the regulation 
read as under:  
“(4) Any application wh ich is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions specified in 
Form A of Schedule I or which is incorrect, false or misleading in nature shall be liable to be rejected:  
Provided that before rejecting any such application, the Bo ard shall give an opportunity to the applicant to 
remove the objections pointed out by the Board within the time specified by the Board.”  
33 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to its omission, the regulation 
read as under:  
“(5) The Board may require the applicant to furnish such further information or explanation as is necessary in 
the opinion of the Board to take a decision on the application.”   
 
34 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to its omission, the regulatio n 
read as under:  
“(5) While considering an application made under regulation 4, the Board may have regard to all relevant 
factors, including the following, namely:-  
(a) the applicant’s track record, professional competence and general reputation and, whe re applicable those of 
its promoters and directors;  
(b) where the applicant is a body corporate, its objects as per the memorandum of association or other 
constitutional document, composition of its board of directors and other relevant matters;  
(c) whether the applicant has adequate infrastructure to ensure proper servicing of the securitisation transaction; 
adherence to the terms of the transaction documents by the originator, underwriter, credit enhancement 
provider, liquidity provider, and other parti es to the securitisation transaction, and ensure compliance with the 
provisions of the Act and these regulations;   
(d) whether the applicant and the special purpose distinct entity have complied with or in a position to comply 
with the requirements of these regulations;  
(e) whether any previous application for grant of certificate made by any person directly or indirectly connected 
with the applicant was rejected by the Board;  
(f) whether the applicant, its promoters and directors are fit and proper pers ons in terms of the criteria specified 
in respect of the intermediaries registered under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 
1992).” 
35 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to its omission, the regulation 
read as under:  
“ 6 (1) Except as other wise provided in these regulations, the provisions relating to procedure of consideration 
of application, grant of registration, powers of the Board including the power to seek further information, verify 
the information furnished by the applicant, conditi ons of registration, effect of refusal of grant of certificate, 
etc.; as applicable to any intermediary shall apply to an applicant under these regulations.  
(2)The Board shall, if it decides to grant registration to the applicant, send intimation to the a pplicant for 
payment of the registration fees specified in Schedule II.  
(3) Upon payment of registration fees, the Board shall grant a certificate to the applicant in Form B of Schedule 
I.  
(4) Subject to the provisions of the Act, these regulations, cond itions of certificate and the obligations of 
payments of fees the registration granted by the Board to a trustee shall be permanent unless suspended or 
cancelled by the Board.”

[Page 9]
7. 36[***] 
 
Procedure where application is rejected.  
8. 37[***] 
 
CHAPTER III  
CONSTITUTION AND MANAGEMENT OF SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTINCT  
ENTITIES AND INCIDENTAL MATTERS  
 
Permissible structures for special purpose distinct entity.  
9. (1) The special purpose distinct entity shall be constituted in the form of a trust the 
constitutional document whereof entitles the trustees to issue securitised debt instruments: 
Provided that originator or any of its associates shall not exercise control over the special 
purpose distinct entity and its trustees.  
(2) The instrument of trust, whether trust deed or any other constitutional document, shall be 
executed by the sponsor in favour of the trustees named in such instrument.  
(3) The instrument of trust shall contain such clauses as are mentioned in Schedule IV and 
such other clauses which are necessary t o protect the interests of investors in the 
securitised debt instruments.  
(4) No instrument of trust shall contain a clause which has the effect of –  
(i) limiting or extinguishing the obligations and liabilities of the trustees or the special 
purpose distinc t entity in relation to any scheme or the rights or interests of investors; (ii) 
                                                 
36 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of S ecuritised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to its omission, the regulation 
read as under:  
“Any certificate granted under regulation 6 shall be subject to the following conditions being compli ed with by 
the trustee, namely:-  
(a) where it proposes to change its management or, control , it shall obtain prior approval of the Board for 
continuing to act as such after the change;  
(b) it shall pay the registration fees and annual fees in the manner provided in Schedule II;  
(c) it shall take adequate steps for redressal of grievances of the investors within  [twenty -one calendar days] of 
the date of the receipt of the complaint and keep the Board informed about the number, nature and other 
particulars of the complaints received;  
(d) it shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations in respect of the regulated activities carried 
on by the special purpose distinct entity;  
(e) it shall forthwith inform the Board, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board is 
found to be misleading in any material respect or false;  
(f) it shall forthwith inform the Board, of any material change in the informatio n or  
particulars furnished, which may have a bearing on the certificate granted to it;  
(g) it shall abide by the Code of Conduct specified in Schedule III.” 
37 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt In struments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to its omission, the regulation 
read as under:  
“8 (1) Where an application for grant of a certificate does not conform to the eligibility criteria and other 
requirements as set out in these regulations, the Board may reject the application and communicate the decision 
with reasons in writing:  
Provided that before rejecting the application, the applicant shall be given an opportunity to remove within a 
reasonable time specified by the Board, such objections as may be indicated by the Board to the applicant in 
writing.   
(2) Where an application is rejected for the reason that it contains false or misleading information, no such 
opportunity shall be given and the applicant shall not make any application for grant of certificate of registration 
under these regulations or any other regulations for a period of one year from the date of such rejection.”

[Page 10]
limiting or restricting or waiving the provisions of the Act, these regulations and circulars or 
guidelines issued by the Board;  
(iii) indemnifying the trustees or the specia l purpose distinct entity for loss or damage caused 
to the investors by their act of negligence or commission or omission.  
(5) The special purpose distinct entity and the trustee shall adopt internal procedures 
designed to avoid conflict of interest.  
(6) A speci al purpose distinct entity shall not raise any moneys in the form of debt or 
issue any debt securities other than through issue of securitised debt instruments:  
Provided that the restriction contained in this sub -regulation shall not apply to issue of 
security receipts.  
(7) A special purpose distinct entity shall be entitled, in terms of the trust deed or other 
constitutional document, to segregate the debt or receivables out of the asset pool for the 
purpose of servicing of any securitised debt instrument in accordance with the scheme.  
(8) The special purpose distinct entity shall not be dissolved until the securitised debt 
instruments issued under all its schemes are fully redeemed or written off in accordance with 
their terms of issue.  
(9) Trustees who are nomine es of the sponsor or the originator or who are associated in 
any manner with the sponsor or the originator or with a company in the same management as 
the sponsor or originator shall not constitute more than one half of the Board of Trustees of 
the special purpose distinct entity, as the case may be [:]38  
[Provided that where the originator is an entity regulated by the Reserve Bank of India, it 
shall not have more than one representative on the board of the special purpose distinct entity 
and such representative shall not have veto power.]39 
(10) Where the special purpose distinct entity proposes to launch multiple schemes, - (a) it 
shall be capable in terms of the trust deed or other constitutional document, of segregating 
multiple securitisation schemes; and  
(b) the terms of issue of securitised debt instruments proposed to be issued under each scheme 
or each series of such instruments shall restrict the rights of investors therein to the relevant 
asset pool alone.  
(11) The special purpose distinct entity shall not carry on any activity other than regulated 
activities and those incidental thereto and it shall not engage in:  
(a) business of lending or investment except making passive financial investments required in 
accordance with the scheme;  
(b) activities of an asset management company or portfolio manager or a mutual fund:  
Provided that the restriction provided in clause (a) shall not apply to –  
(i) any trust or other body promoted by the National Housing Bank, in res pect of activities 
undertaken by it in terms of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987); (ii) any trust 
or other body promoted by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, in 
respect of activities undertaken by it in terms of the Na tional Bank for Agriculture and Rural 
Development Act, 1981 (61 of 1981);  
(iii) any trust set up by a securitisation company or reconstruction company in respect of 
activities undertaken by it in terms of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial  
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002);  
                                                 
38 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Is sue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026  w.e.f July 06, 2026. 
39 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026.

[Page 11]
(iv)any securitisation undertaken by a special purpose distinct entity, which involves private 
placement of any instruments representing securitised debt which are not proposed to be 
listed on any recognised stock exchange.  
 
Assignment of debt or receivables.  
10. (1) The originator and the trustee shall ensure in respect of the debt or receivables 
assigned to the special purpose distinct entity that the following conditions are fulfilled:  
(a) the debt or receivables generates or is reasonably expected to generate identifiable 
cash flows for the purpose of servicing the securitised debt instruments in accordance with 
the scheme;  
(b) the originator has a valid enforceable interest in the assets and in the cash flow of the 
assets prior to the securitisation;  
(c) the debt or receivables is free from any encumbrances or impediments to their free 
transfer or the transfer of the rights attaching thereto and their transfer does not constitute an 
event of default or acceleration trigger under any agreement;  
(d) the necessary regulatory or contractual permissions or consents have been obtained in 
order to effect the transfer of such debt or receivables from the originator to the special 
purpose distinct entity;   
(e) the originator has not done or omitted to do anything which enables any of his debtors 
to exercise the right of set-off in relation to such assets;  
(f) the debt or receivables is transferred at a price arrived at through an arms’ length 
transaction and solely on commercial considerations; and  
(g) any representations and warranties made by the originator regarding the debt or 
receivables are duly adhered to.  
(2) The special purpose distinct entity and the originator shall take all necessary steps to 
ensure that th e debt or receivables acquired by the special purpose distinct entity are duly 
assigned in its name and are legally realizable by it.  
(3) [No special purpose distinct entity shall acquire any debt or receivables from any 
originator which is:  
a) part of the same group as the trustee; or  
b) under the same control as the trustee.]40 
Explanation: For the purposes of sub-regulation (3), -  
(a) two persons shall be deemed to be “part of the same group” if they belong to the same 
group within the meaning of 41[clause (b) of the Explanation to section 5 of the Competition 
Act, 2002 (12 of 2003)];  
(b) the expression “42[under same control]” shall have the meaning derived from 43[clause 
(e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of In dia SEBI 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011].  
                                                 
40 Substituted for “ No special purpose distinct entity shall acquire any debt or receivables from any originator 
which is part of the same group or which is under the same control as the trustee. ” by the Secur ities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026. 
41 Substituted for “clause (ef) of section 2 of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act , 1969 (54 of 
1969) or if they own “inter -connected undertakings” within the meaning of clause (g) of section 2 of that Act” 
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security 
Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
42 Substituted for “under the same management” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 
2025.

[Page 12]
(4) The securitisation transaction shall be structured in such a manner so as to minimise  
the risk of the asset pool being consolidated with the assets of the originator or the sponsor, in 
the event of insolvency or winding up of either of them.  
(5) The special purpose distinct entity and its trustees shall ensure that the debt and 
receivables assigned to it are through a genuine transaction amounting to a true sale and are 
legally realizable by it and the special purpose distinct entity shall be remote from the risk of 
bankruptcy, insolvency and winding up of the originator, sponsor and any other entity.  
 
44[Mandatory periodic disclosure requirements 
10A. (1) The [servicer] 45 shall provide the periodic reports to the trustee regarding the 
performance of the underlying asset pool, atleast on a quarterly basis.  
(2) The [servicer]46 shall provide a ce rtificate from its auditor (s) regarding the  disclosures  
of underlying  asset  pool  assigned  to  the  securitization  trust, [***]47 on quarterly basis.] 
 
Obligations of trustees  
11. (1) A trustee shall carry out his duties and perform his functions un der these regulations, 
the trust deed or other document, with due care and diligence.   
(2) The trustees shall ensure that the covenants in the trust deed and any other transaction 
document are complied with by the concerned parties 48[and shall take necessary steps in case 
of any breach of covenants in terms of the trust deed and transaction documents].  
49[(3) A trustee shall,-  
(a) supervise the implementation of the covenants regarding creation of security for the  
securitised debt instruments;  
(b) do such acts as are necessary in the event the security becomes enforceable and 
supervise the enforcement of the security in the interest of the investors;  
(c) carry out such acts as are necessary for resolving the grievances of the investors and 
for the protection of int erest of the investors; (d) ensure on a continuous basis that the trust 
property of a particular scheme/tranche is available at all times to pay the securitised debt 
instruments holders of that particular scheme/tranche; (e) exercise due diligence to ensur e 
compliance by the originators, with the listing agreements (if applicable), the trust deed or 
any other transaction document and if the originator is a banking company or non -banking 
financial company as defined in the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, trustee shall ensure that 
it has complied with the guidelines prescribed for securitisation by Reserve Bank of India;  
                                                                                                                                                        
43 Substituted “subsection (1B) of section 370 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025  
44 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
45 Substituted for “originator” by the Securities and Exchange Board of In dia (Issue and Listing of Securitised 
Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026.  
46 Substituted for “originator” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised 
Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026.  
47 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026. Prior to its omission, it read as “ as 
made by the originator,”. 
48 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
49Inserted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. April 9, 2015.

[Page 13]
(f) 50[inform] the board about any action, legal proceeding, etc., initiated against it in respect 
of any material breach or noncompliance by it, of any law, rules, regulations, directions of the 
Board or of any other regulatory body; (g) ensure that the securitised deb t instruments have 
been repaid or redeemed in accordance with the provisions and conditions under which they 
were offered to the investors;  
(h) call for periodic reports from the [servicer] 51  regarding the performance of the 
underlying asset pool, atleast on quarterly basis;  
(i) communicate to the investors regarding the compliance by the servicer with its 
obligations and the actions taken 52[thereon], atleast on quarterly basis;  
(j) obtain a certificate from the auditor(s) of [servicer] 53  regarding the  54 [status o f] 
disclosures of underlying asset pool assigned to the securitization trust, [***]55 on quarterly 
basis;  
(k) share such reports and auditors certificate as received from the [servicer]56 or the 
auditor(s) of [servicer]57, with the credit rating agency which is rating the securitised debt 
instrument;  
58[(l) call a meeting of all the investors on— 
(i) a requisition in writing signed by at least one -tenth of the investors in value for the 
time being outstanding; or 
(ii) the happening of any event, which constitutes  a servicer default or breach of 
covenants as specified in the trust deed or transaction documents, or which in the 
opinion of the trustee affects the interest of the investors;] 
 
  59[(la) call a meeting of the investors, if required in the opinion of the trustee; 
(lb) call and conduct  the meeting of investors  in such manner as may be specified by the 
Board from time to time, subject to the following conditions:  
                                                 
50 Substituted for “take appropriate measures for protecting the interest of the investors including informing” by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security 
Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
51 Substituted for “originator” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised 
Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026.  
52 Substituted for “thereof” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. 
53 Substituted for “originator” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised 
Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026.  
54 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
55 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026. Prior to its omission, it read as “ as 
made by the originator,”. 
56 Substituted for “originator” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue an d Listing of Securitised 
Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026.  
57 Substituted for “originator” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised 
Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026. 
58 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Before sub stitution, the regulation 
read as under:  
“(l) call a meeting of all the investors on a requisition, in writing signed by at least one -tenth of investors in 
value for the time being outstanding or at the occurrence of an event, which constitutes a servicer  default or 
which in the opinion of the trustees affects the interest of the investors;”  
59 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 14]
(a) in order to facilitate wider participation and collective sense, meetings shall be 
facilitated by video-conferencing and voting shall be facilitated by electronic means; 
(b) to facilitate timely decision-making, the sense of the meeting shall be ascertained 
on the basis of present and voting; 
(c) as to requisite majority, unless otherwise explic itly provided in these regulations 
or any other regulations framed by the Board or any other law for the being in force 
or the trust deed, any matter placed before the securitised debt instrument  holders 
shall be decided by such securitised debt instrument holders, holding more than fifty 
per cent value of the outstanding securitised debt instruments: 
Provided that the terms of the issue of securitised debt instruments or trust deed may 
provide for a higher majority for taking such decision. 
Explanation:- For the purpose of these regulations, standards, if any, as specified by the 
Board with respect to the calling of meetings of securitised debt instrument holders shall 
mutatis mutandis apply to the calling of meetings of investors.]   
 
(m) maintain the net wo rth as per the requirements specified in these regulations on a 
continuous basis and inform the Board immediately in respect of any shortfall in the net 
worth and take necessary corrective action to restore the net worth within a period of six 
months;  
(n) ensure that any change in registration status or any administrative, civil or penal action 
taken by Board 60[against the trustee under any of the applicable regulations ] or any 
material change in financial position 61[of the trustee ] which may adversely affect the 
interests of investors is promptly informed to the investors;  
(o) not relinquish responsibility as trustee in respect of the issue, unless and until another 
trustee is appointed in its place;  
(p) have necessary infrastructure to discharge its duties including the following:  
(i) collecting information and reports from servicers/originator;  
(ii) generating cash flow reports, payment reports and meet all reporting requirements 
required under the Board's or Reserve Bank of India's guidelines/circulars; (iii) recording 
investor information;  
(iv) entering and maintaining data for the special purpose distinct entity, including cash 
flows, audited financials, taxation aspects etc.;  
(v) issuing cheques/demand drafts or generating RTGS/NEFT requests etc., for interest 
and principal payments;  
(vi) sufficient access controls to ensure confidentiality of data; (vii) sufficient systems for 
backup and disaster recovery.  
(q) appoint a compliance officer for performing duties including:  
(i) monitoring the compliance of the acts, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines, 
instructions, etc., issued by the Board, Central Government and State Government(s); (ii) 
redressal of investors grievances.]  
                                                 
60 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
61 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (I ssue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 15]
62[(r) redress investor grievances promptly but not later than twenty -one calendar days from 
the date of receipt of the grievance and in such manner as may be specified by the Board.] 
63[(4) The trustees shall be accountable for, and be the custodian of, the funds and property of 
the respective schemes and shall hold the same in trust for the benefit of the unitholders in 
accordance with these regulations and the provisions of trust deed. 
(5) The trustee shall ensure that the trust property is properly protected, held and administered 
by proper persons and by an appropriate number of such persons. 
(6) The trustee shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Schedule III. 
(7) The trustee shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations in respect of the 
regulated activities carried on by the special purpose distinct entity.] 
 
64[Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
11A. The Board may recognize a body corporate for handling and monitoring the process of 
grievance redressal within such time and in such manner as may be specified.] 
 
65[Submission of periodic information to the Board 
11B. (1) A special purpose distinct entity and the trustee shall furnish information to the 
Board on a half yearly basis, in the manner as may be specified. 
(2)The Board may specify the format of the disclosu re and may specify additional 
instructions and disclosure requirement for facilitating automated supervision and automated 
processing of data related to securitised debt instrument as part of the continuous disclosure 
requirements.] 
 
 
CHAPTER IV  
SCHEMES OF SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTINCT ENTITIES  
 
Launching of schemes.  
12. (1) A special purpose distinct entity may raise funds by making an offer of securitised 
debt instruments through formulating schemes in accordance with these regulations.  
(2) Where there are multiple schemes, the special purpose distinct entity shall maintain 
separate and distinct accounts in respect of each such scheme and shall not commingle asset 
pools or realisations of a scheme with those of other schemes.  
(3) A special purpo se distinct entity and trustees thereof shall ensure that realisations of 
debts and receivables are held and correctly applied towards redemption of securitised debt 
instruments issued under the respective schemes or towards payment of returns on such 
instruments or towards other permissible expenditure of the scheme.   
(4) The terms of issue of the securitised debt instruments may provide for exercise of a 
clean -up call option by the special purpose distinct entity, subject to adequate disclosures.  
                                                 
62 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance  Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023. 
63 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
64 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of In dia (Facilitation of Grievance  Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023. 
65 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 16]
(5) No expenses shall be charged to the scheme in excess of the allowable expenses as 
may be specified in the scheme and any such expenditure, if incurred, shall be borne by the 
trustees.  
 
Obligation to redeem securitised debt instruments.  
13. (1) The trustee and the  special purpose distinct entity shall ensure timely payment of 
interest and redemption amounts to the investors in terms of the offer document or other 
terms of issue of the securitised debt instruments out of the realisations from the asset pool, 
credit enhancer or liquidity provider. 
(2) The trustee shall ensure that the servicer adopts such prudent measures as may be 
expected under the origination documents to recover the dues from the obligors in the event 
of any default in any portion thereof.  
(3) The expected period of maturity of each scheme and the possibility of extension or 
shortening of such period shall be disclosed in the offer document together with the likely 
circumstances in which such extension or shortening may take place. 
 
 
 Credit enhancement and liquidity facilities.  
14. (1) A special purpose distinct entity may opt for credit enhancement of the asset pool, 
subject to making full disclosures of the arrangements in the offer document or the particulars 
submitted to the recognised stock exchange.  
(2) A special purpose distinct entity may avail the services of a liquidity provider, subject to 
making full disclosures of the arrangements in the offer document or the particulars submitted 
to the recognised stock exchange.  
66[(3) The special purpose distinct entity, while availing the services of a liquidity provider 
shall ensure that:  
(i)  The liquidity facility provider is regulated by at least one financial sector regulator. 
(ii)  The facility is structured separately from other arr angements, with clear 
documentation detailing its nature, purpose, scope, and performance standards in a 
written agreement executed at the time of the transaction and disclosed in the offer 
document. 
(iii) The facility is provided on an ‘arms-length basis’, under market terms, and subject to 
the provider’s usual credit approval and review process. 
(iv) Payment of fees or income related to the facility is not subordinated, deferred, or 
waived. 
(v) The facility is limited to a specified amount and duration. 
(vi) The duration is not exceeding the earlier of: 
(a) settlement of all claims related to the securitized debt instruments notes issued 
by the  special purpose distinct entity; or 
(b) termination of the facility provider’s obligations. 
(vii) There shall be no recourse to the facility provi der beyond its fixed contractual 
obligations. 
                                                 
66 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 17]
(viii) A legal opinion is obtained confirming that the agreement protects the facility 
provider from liability to investors or special purpose distinct entities  or trustee, 
except for its contractual obligations. 
(ix) The special purpose distinct entities and/or investors have the right to select an 
alternative provider, subject to compliance with these conditions. 
(x) The documentation clearly defines the circumstances under which the facility may or 
may not be accessed. 
(xi) The facility shall only be drawn if there are sufficient non-defaulted assets to cover it 
or if a significant credit enhancement covers potential non-performing assets. 
(xii) The facility shall not be used for: 
(a) providing credit enhancement; 
(b) covering the issuer’s losses; 
(c) acting as permanent revolving facility (i.e. liquidity support should be used 
as an exception rather than the norm); or 
(d) covering losses in the underlying assets  prior to a drawdown. 
(xiii) The facility shall not be available for: 
(a) meeting recurring securitisation expenses; 
(b) funding additional asset acquisition by the special purpose distinct entity; 
(c) covering final scheduled repayments to investors; or 
(d) addressing warranty breaches. 
(xiv) The facility shall  be provided to the special purpose distinct  entity, not di rectly to 
investors. 
(xv) Once drawn, the facility provider shall have priority over future cash flows from the 
underlying assets, ranking senior to the senior tranche. 
(xvi) The originator shall not be liable for any shortfall in liquidity support provided by 
an independent third party. 
(4) If any of the conditions  mentioned in sub-regulation (3) are not met, the liquidity facility 
shall be regarded as serving the economic purpose of credit enhancement and such third-party 
liquidity facility shall be classified as credit enhancement. 
(5) The liquidity facility shall only be drawn for short periods and not used for tw o 
consecutive repayment cycles.] 
Servicers.  
15. (1) A special purpose distinct entity may appoint either the originator or any other person 
as servicer in respect of any of its schemes, subject to the following, namely: - (a) the trustees 
shall ensure that the servicer keeps proper accounts in respect of  the activities delegated to 
him;  
(b) the trustees shall ensure that the servicer has adequate operational systems and resources 
to administer the asset pool in relation to a securitisation transaction.  
(2) Servicer may be appointed by the special purpos e distinct entity to do all or any of the 
following, namely:-  
(i) to coordinate with the obligors, manage the asset pool and collections therefrom;

[Page 18]
(ii) administer the cash flows of such asset pool, distributions to investors; and 
reinvestment, if any, in accordance with the scheme; and (iii) manage incidental matters.  
(3) Where a special purpose distinct entity appoints the originator as servicer, it shall adopt 
internal procedures designed to avoid conflict of interest.  
 
Accounts.  
16. (1) Without prejudice to  provisions of the  67[Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) ], or any 
other applicable law, a special purpose distinct entity shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
proper accounts and records to enable a true and fair view to be formed of its assets, 
liabilities, income and expenditure and those of all its scheme s and to comply with the 
disclosure requirements of these regulations and other applicable laws.  
(2) The accounts of a scheme shall be maintained in such a manner so as to disclose as on 
the most recent pay out date, the financial position of the scheme and s hall in particular give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the scheme.  
(3) The accounts of the special purpose distinct entity and all its schemes shall be 
maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and having regard t o 
the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India or as may be specified 
by the Board in respect of accounting for schemes.  
 
Audit.  
17. (1) The accounts of the schemes formulated by a special purpose distinct entity shall be 
audited by a chartered accountant in practice within the meaning of the  
Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949) at such frequency as may be specified in the 
listing agreement or conditions.  
(2) Such audit shall be conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. 
(3) The scope of such audit may be specified by the Board. 
 
 Maintenance of records.  
18. (1) A special purpose distinct entity shall maintain or cause to be maintained other records 
and documents, including a register of holders of securitised debt instruments, for each 
scheme so as to explain its transactions and its accounts:  
Provided that the register of beneficial owners maintained by a depository in respect of 
securitised debt instruments held in dematerialised form with it shall be deemed to be a 
register of holders of securitised debt instruments for the purposes of these regulations.  
(2) A special purpose distinct entity shall intimate to the Board the places where the 
records and documents maintained under sub -regulation (1) and the accounts maintained 
under regulation 16 are kept.  
(3) The special purpose distinct entity shall maintain its b ooks of account, records and 
other documents in respect of its schemes for a minimum period of eight years from the 
redemption of all instruments issued under the scheme.  
 
Holding of originator.  
                                                 
67 Substituted for “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 19 56)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 
2025.

[Page 19]
19. (1) No originator shall at any time subscribe to or hol d securitised debt instruments in 
excess of twenty per cent of the total securitised debt instruments issued by the special 
purpose distinct entity in a particular scheme.  
(2) Nothing contained in sub -regulation (1) shall apply to the holdings of an originato r 
acquired on account of underwriting of a public issue of securitised debt instruments or in 
pursuance of an arrangement for credit enhancement:  
Provided that the possibilities of such holdings are disclosed in the offer document or in the 
listing particulars.  
(3) For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that sub -regulation (1) applies only to the 
classes of securitised debt instruments which are offered to the public or listed.  
 
68[Conditions governing securitisation  
19A. The following conditions shall g overn the securitisation resulting in issuance of a 
securitised debt instrument:  
(a) No obligor shall have more than twenty five percent in asset pool at the time of 
issuance. 
(b) Asset comprising the securitisation pool shall be homogeneous.  
(c) Securitised debt instruments shall be fully paid up upfront. 
(d) Originators shall have a track record of operations of three financial years which 
resulted in the creation of the type of debt or receivable such originator is seeking 
to securitise. 
(e) Obligor shall have a track record of operations of three financial years which 
resulted in the creation of the type of debt or receivable that such originator is 
seeking to securitise:  
Provided that the conditions [***]69 as specified in the clause  [(a),]70 (d) and (e) shall not be 
applicable to a securitised debt instrument where the originator is an entity regulated by the 
Reserve Bank of India: 
Provided further  that condition as specified in clause (a) may be relaxed by the Board as 
may be specified from time to time. 
 Explanation: ─ (1) The term ‘homogeneous’ shall mean same or similar risk or return profile 
arising from the proposed underlying for a securitised debt instrument. 
     (2) The Board may specify homogeneity for different types of underlying debt or receivables, 
as may be required.] 
 
Winding up of schemes.  
20. A scheme may be wound up in the event of [any of]71 the following:  
                                                 
68 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of S ecuritised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
69 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised  Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026. Prior to its omission, it read as “ of the 
track record,”. 
70 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026. 
71 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026.

[Page 20]
(a) when the securitised debt instruments have been fully redeemed as per the scheme; (b) 
upon legal maturity as stated in the terms of issue of the securitised debt instrument: Provided 
that if any debt or receivable is outstanding on legal maturity, the trustees shall dispose off 
the same in accordance with the scheme and distribute the proceeds; (c) by vote of investor s 
by a special resolution as provided in regulation 34  [; and]72 [(d) if the Board so directs in the 
interest of the investors.]73 
 
 
CHAPTER V  
PUBLIC OFFER OF SECURITISED DEBT INSTRUMENTS  
 
 
Offer to the public.   
21. (1) This Chapter shall be applicable to offer of securitised debt instruments 
to the public.  
(2) Any reference in these regulations to offering securitised debt instruments to the 
public shall be construed as including a reference to offering them to any sect ion of the 
public.  
(3) No offer shall be treated as made to the public by virtue of sub -regulation (1), if the 
offer can properly be regarded, in all the circumstances –  
(a) as not being likely to result, directly or indirectly, in the securitised debt instrumen ts 
becoming available for subscription or purchase by persons other than those receiving the 
offer;  
(b) otherwise as being the domestic concern of the persons making and receiving the offer.  
(4) Notwithstanding sub-regulation (2), any offer of securitised debt instruments made to fifty 
or more persons in a financial year shall always be deemed to have been made to the public: 
Provided that sub-regulation (3) applies only in respect of securitised debt instruments which 
belong to the same tranche and which are pari passu in all respects74[:]  
 
75[Provided further that an offer shall not be deemed to be made to the public if the special 
purpose distinct entities or securitisation transactions not intending for Pass Through 
Certificate or Securitised Debt Instrumen ts or Notes or instrument or securities by whatever 
name called , are being available to number of investors specified  in sub -regulation (4) of 
regulation 21, and not being listed, may opt for below mechanism: 
i. It specifies prominently, expressly and in writing in the offer document  or private 
placement memorandum  or information memorandum  or  document or contract (or 
other such information in whatever form or manner) for the Pass Through Certificate  
or Securitization Notes or instrument or securities or securitized debt instruments by 
whatever name called, that initial and subsequent investors have to be limited to fifty 
                                                 
72 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026.  
73 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Iss ue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026. 
74 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
75 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 21]
and the investors should abide by such restrictions, and the mechanism instituted by 
the issuer & depository. 
ii. Issuance, holding and tran sfer of Pass Through  Certificate or Securitisation Notes or 
securitized debt instruments by whatever name called shall be in dematerialised mode  
only.  
iii. Issuers and investors shall only utilize the mechanism instituted by the depository for 
issue & allotment, holding & transfers of such instruments.] 
Explanation: For the purposes of sub -regulation (4), the term “financial year” shall mean the 
period of twelve months commencing from the 1st day of April in any year.  
 
Submission of draft offer document and filing of final offer document.  
22. (1) No special purpose distinct entity or trustee thereof shall make an offer of securitised 
debt instruments to the public unless it files a draft offer document with the Board at least 
fifteen working days before the proposed opening of the issue.  
(2) Such offer document shall be filed along with the minimum filing fee as mentioned in 
Schedule II:  
Provided that the balance filing fee provided in Schedule II shall be paid to the Board within 
seven days of closure of the public offer.  
(3) If the Board specifies any changes to be made in the offer document within the said 
period of fifteen working days, the special purpose distinct entity and trustee thereof shall 
carry out such changes in the draft offer document prior to filing  it with the designated stock 
exchange under regulation 35 or issuing it.  
(4) The final offer document shall be filed with the Board and with every recognised 
stock exchange to which an application for listing of the securitised debt instruments is 
proposed to be made prior to its issuance to public.  
 
 
Arrangements for dematerialisation.  
23. (1) Prior to submitting the draft offer document with the Board under regulation 22, the 
special purpose distinct entity shall enter into an arrangement with a registere d depository for 
dematerialisation of the securitised debt instruments that are proposed to be issued to the 
public.  
76[(2) The issue of securitised debt instruments by the special purpose distinct entity and the 
subsequent transfers shall only be in dematerialised form.]  
(3) 77[***] 
 
                                                 
76 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Before substitution, the regulation 
read as under:  
“(2) The special purpose distinct en tity shall give an option to the investors to receive the securitised debt 
instruments either in the physical form or in dematerialised form.” 
77 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Before omission, the regulation read as 
under:  
“(3) The holders of demateria lised instruments shall have the same rights and liabilities as holders of physical 
instruments.”

[Page 22]
Mandatory listing.  
 24. A special purpose distinct entity desirous of making an offer of securitised debt 
instruments to the public shall make an application for listing to one or more recognized stock 
exchanges in terms of sub-section (2) of section 17A of the Act.  
 
Credit rating.  
25. (1) No special purpose distinct entity shall offer securitised debt instruments to the public 
unless credit rating is obtained from not less than two registered credit rating agencies.  
(2) All credit ratings obtained by a special purpose distinct ent ity on the securitised debt 
instruments shall be disclosed in the offer document, including unaccepted credit ratings.  
(3) A credit rating agency rating the securitised debt instruments issued by a special 
purpose distinct entity shall include reference to th e following in the rating rationale: (a) 
quality of the asset pool and the strength of cash flows;  
(b) payment structure;  
(c) adequacy of credit enhancements;  
(d) originator profile;  
(e) risks and concerns for investors and mitigating factors;  
(f) quality and experience of the servicer;  
(g) terms of the servicer contract;  
(h) provision for appointment of back-up servicer, if any; (i) any other relevant information.  
 
Contents of offer document.  
26. (1) An offer document issued by a special purpose distinct entity or trustee thereof shall 
contain all material information which is true, fair and adequate for an investor  to make 
informed investment decision and shall also disclose the matters specified in Schedule V.  
(2) An offer document shall not include a statement purportin g to be made by an expert 
unless –  
(a) he has given his written consent to the offer document being issued with the statement 
included in the form and context in which it is included; 
(b) such consent is not revoked by him prior to its filing with the Board; and  
(c) a statement that he has given and has not withdrawn his consent as aforesaid appears in 
the offer document.  
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation “expert” shall have the same meaning as in 
78[sub-section (38) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)].  
 
Prohibition of misstatements in the offer document.  
27. (1) An offer document or any report or memorandum issued by a special purpose distinct 
entity in connection with an offer of securitised debt instruments shall not contain any false or 
misleading statement.  
(2) An offer document shall not omit disclosure of any material fact which may make the 
statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, 
misleading.  
 
Underwriting of the issue.  
                                                 
78 Substituted for “sub -section (2) of section 59 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of  Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 23]
28. A public offer made by a special purpose distinct entity may be underwritten by an 
underwriter registered with the Board. 
 
Offer period.   
29. No public offer of securitised debt instruments shall remain open for  79[less than two 
working days and more than ten working days].  
 
Minimum subscription.  
30. (1) The offer document shall disclose the minimum subscription it seeks to raise 
under the scheme.  
(2) No securitised debt instruments shall be allotted under the public offer unless 
subscriptions have been received in respect of the minimum number of securit ised debt 
instruments which will constitute minimum subscription.  
(3) In the event of non receipt of minimum subscription or refusal of listing by any 
recognised stock exchange, all application moneys received in the public offer shall be 
refunded forthwith to the applicants.  
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation and Schedule V, “minimum subscription” 
refers to the amount which, in the opinion of the directors of the originator and trustees of the 
special purpose distinct entity, must be raised by issue of securitised debt instruments.  
 
80[Minimum ticket size 
30A (1) The minimum ticket size for issuance of a securitised debt instrument shall be rupees 
one crore. 
Explanation: ─ For the purpose of this regulation, ticket size shall mean the size of 
investment by a single investor. 
(2) The minimum ticket size for subsequent transfers of a securitised debt instrument shall be 
as follows: 
(i) for originators which are not regulated by the Reserve Bank of India, the minimum 
ticket size shall be rupees one crore.  
(ii) for securitised debt instrument having listed securities as underlying, the minimum 
ticket size amount shall be that of highest face value among such securities: 
Provided that securitised debt instruments with amortization structures shall be permitted to 
be traded at amortised value, if the ticket size falls below rupees one crore.  
Minimum retention requirement 
  30B (1) The special purpose distinct entity shall ensure that the originator shall ensure 
compliance with the provisions of this regulation.  
(2) The originator shall retain a minimum of ten per cent . of the book value of the debt or 
receivable being securitised: 
                                                 
79 Substituted for “more than thirty days” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
80 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 24]
Provided that in cases where the scheduled maturity of any of the cash flows in the 
transaction is within twenty f our months, the originator shall retain a minimum of five per 
cent. of the book value of the asset being securitised. 
(3) In the case of residential mortgage backed securities, the originator shall retain a 
minimum of five per cent. of the book value of the loans being securitised, irrespective of the 
original maturity. 
(4) The originator shall retain the book value  referred in sub -regulation (3) in the following 
manner:  
(a)  In case where only upto five per cent. of the book value of loans is being securitised:  
i. First loss facility, if available;  
ii. If first loss facility is not available, or where retention of the entire first loss facility 
amounts to less than five per cent., balance through retention of equity tranche;  
iii. Where retention o f the entire first loss facility, if available, and equity tranche 
amounts to less than five per cent, balance pari passu in remaining tranches sold to 
investors.  
(b)  In case where more than five per cent of the book value of loans is being securitised: 
 First loss facility, or equity tranche or any other tranche sold to investors, in any 
combination thereof.  
Explanation: ─ (1) It is clarified that first loss facility for this purpose shall not include 
overcollateralization available, if any.  
(2) Investment in the Interest Only Strip representing the Excess Interest Spread  or Future 
Margin Income, whether or not subordinated, will not be counted towards the requirement 
of this regulation.  
(5) The following conditions shall be complied with while ensuring  compliance with this 
regulation:  
(a) The originator shall not reduce the percentage of the risk specified to be retained 
either through hedging of credit risk or selling or encumbering the retained interest.  
(b) The originator shall retain and maintain the minimum risk itself and shall not pass on 
the same to any of its group entities.  
(c) The form of minimum risk specified to be retained shall not be changed during the 
life of securitisation.  
(d) The minimum risk retai ned as a percentage of unamortised principal should be 
maintained on an ongoing basis except for reduction of retained exposure due to 
repayment or through the absorption of losses. 
Minimum holding period 
 30C. (1) The special purpose distinct entity shall  ensure that the loans are securitised by the 
originator only after completion of the minimum holding period , as prescribed in this 
regulation.  
(2) The period of holding shall commence from the date of registration of the underlying 
security interest with  the Central Registry of Securitisation Asset Reconstruction and 
Security Interest of India. 
(3) The minimum holding period shall be as follows:

[Page 25]
(a) Three months in case of loans with tenor of up to two years; 
(b) Six months in case of loans with tenor of more than two years: 
Provided that in case of loans where security does not exist or security cannot be registered, 
the minimum holding period shall be calculated from the date of first repayment of the loan: 
Provided further that in case of transfer of project loans, the minimum holding period shall 
be calculated from the date of commencement of commercial operation s of the project being 
financed: 
Provided further that in case of loans acquired from other entities by a transferor, such loans 
cannot be transferred before completion of six months from the date on which the loan was 
taken into the books of the transferor: 
Provided further that for commercial or residential real estate mortgages, minimum holding 
period shall be co unted from the date of full disbursement of the loan, or registration of 
security interest with Central Registry of Securitisation Asset Reconstruction and Security 
Interest of India, whichever is later. 
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regul ation, the Board may specify minimum 
holding period requirements for other debts or receivables. 
Clean up call option  
30D. (1) The originator shall be able to repurchase the transferred exposure only through 
invocation of a clean-up call option: 
Provided that the purchase on invocation of clean -up calls is conducted at an arms-length, 
on market terms and conditions (including price  or fee) and is subject to the originator ’s 
normal credit approval and review processes. 
(2) The originator can exercise the cl ean-up call at a threshold of not more than ten per cent. 
of the original value of the underlying assets or securitised debt instruments. 
(3) The exercise of the clean-up calls shall be exercised at the discretion of the originator. 
(4) The clean -up call options shall not be structured to avoid allocating losses to credit 
enhancements or positions held by investors or to provide credit enhancements: 
Provided that exercise of the clean up call serving as a credit enhancement shall be 
considered a form of implicit support provided by the originator.] 
 
Allotment and other obligations.  
31. (1) The securitised debt instruments shall be allotted to the investors 81[within five days of 
closure of the offer.]  
(a) 82[***]  
(b) 83[***]  
                                                 
81 Substituted for “within the following time periods: -” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 
05, 2025.  
82 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Before omission, the regulation read 
as:  
“(a) in case of dematerialized securitised debt instruments –  
within five days of closure of the offer;”

[Page 26]
(2) No special purpose distinct entity shall retain any oversubscription received in any 
public offer.  
(3) In the event of over -subscription, the allotment shall be made as per the basis of 
allotment finalized in consultation with the recognized stock exchanges t o which an 
application for listing was made.  
(4) The special purpose distinct entity shall dispatch refund orders to unsuccessful or 
partially successful applicants within eight days of closure of the offer.  
(5) In a case where the issue proceeds become liable t o be  refunded in accordance with 
the disclosures made in the offer document, the special purpose distinct entity shall dispatch 
refund orders to the applicants within eight days of closure of the offer.  
(6) Where the allotment is not made within the time per iod mentioned in clause (a) of 
subregulation (1) or where the certificates are not dispatched within the time mentioned in 
clause (b) of sub -regulation (1), the special purpose distinct entity and every trustee thereof, 
and where any such trustee is a body corporate, every director thereof, who is in default shall, 
on and from the expiry of such period, be jointly and severally liable to pay interest at the rate 
of fifteen per cent. per annum to the concerned applicants.  
(7) Where the refund orders are not dispatched within the time mentioned in sub -
regulations (4) or (5), the special purpose distinct entity and every trustee thereof, and where 
any such trustee is a body corporate, every director thereof, who is in default sha ll, on and 
from the expiry of the eighth day, be jointly and severally liable to repay that money with 
interest at the rate of fifteen per cent per annum.  
(8) Sub-regulations (6) and (7) shall have effect without prejudice to any other provisions 
of these regulations or any other law. 
84[(9) Credit to demat accounts of the allottees shall be made by the issuer within two 
working days from the date of allotment.] 
  
Post issue obligations.  
32. The special purpose distinct entity shall file such reports and furnish s uch information 
to the Board or to the investors, as directed by the Board from time to time.   
 
 
CHAPTER VI  
RIGHTS OF 
INVESTORS  
 
Transferability of securitised debt instruments.  
33. Subject to the provisions of regulation 38, the securitised debt instruments issued to 
the public or listed on a recognized stock exchange in accordance with these regulations shall 
be freely transferable.  
 
Rights of investors in securities issued by special purpose distinct entity.  
                                                                                                                                                        
83 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Before omission, the regulation read 
as:  
“(b) in case of securitised debt instruments in the physical form – the certificates shall be dispatched within 
eight days of closure of the offer.” 
84 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 1 -12-2015.

[Page 27]
34. (1) The trust deed or other instrument comprising the terms of issue of the securitised 
debt instruments issued by a special purpose distinct entity shall provide that investors 
holding such securitised debt instruments have s uch beneficial interest in the underlying debt 
or receivables as may have been conferred by the scheme.  
(2) In the event of failure of the special purpose distinct entity to redeem any securitised debt 
instruments offered through an offer document or listed, within the time and in 
accordance with the conditions stated in the offer document or other terms of issue, the 
investors holding not less than ten per cent in nominal value of such securitised debt 
instruments shall be entitled to call a meeting of all such investors.  
(3) In such meeting, the investors may move a motion to–  
(a) call upon the trustee and the special purpose distinct entity to wind up the scheme and 
distribute the realisations;  
(b) remove the trustee;  
(c) appoint a new trustee in place of the one removed under clause (b):  
Provided that any such decision shall be taken by means of a special resolution of the 
investors of the scheme and  85[sections 109 and 114 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 
2013)] shall mutatis mutandis apply to such special resolution:  
Provided further that the new trustee appointed under clause (c) is registered with the Board 
86[under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 
1993.]  
(4) The trustee and the special purpose distinct entity shall take all reasonable steps to 
carry out the resolutions passed by the investors under sub-regulation (3).  
(5) Any reasonable expenses incurred in calling and holding a meeting under sub -
regulation (3) and any reasonable expenses incurred by the trustee or the new trustee, as the 
case may be, in winding up the scheme and incidental activities shall be met from or 
reimbursed out of realisations from the asset pool.  
(6) The terms of issue of securitised debt instruments shall not be 87[***]varied without 
the consent of the investors.  
(7) For purposes of sub -regulation (6), investors shall be deemed to have given their 
consent to variation if and only if twenty one days notice is given to them of the proposed 
variation and it is approved by a special resolution passed by them through 88[e-voting].  
(8) 89[Section 110 and 114 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) ] and the rules 
framed thereunder shall mutatis mutandis apply to the special resolution referred to in sub -
regulation (7).  
 
CHAPTER VII  
LISTING OF SECURITISED DEBT INSTRUMENTS  
                                                 
85 Substituted for “sections 179 and 189 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
86  Substituted for “under these regulations or is exempted from such registration” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
87 Omitted “adversely” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
88 Substituted for “postal ballot” by the Securities and Exchange Board o f India (Issue and Listing of Securitised 
Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
89 Substituted for “Sections 189 and 192A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of In dia (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 28]
Application for listing.  
35. (1) A special purpose distinct entity required by sub -section (2) of section 17A of the Act 
to get the securitised debt instruments issued by it listed on a recognised stock exchange or 
otherwise desirous of getting the securitised debt instruments issued by it so listed shall make 
an application to the stock exchange in the form specified by it along with the following 
documents and particulars:  
(a) trust deed or other constitutional document, as the case may be;  
(b) copies of all offer documents and advertiseme nts in connection with offer of securitised 
debt instruments by the special purpose distinct entity or its trustee at any time;  
(c) certified copy of every material document or proposed document which is referred to in 
any such offer document;  
(d) certified copies of agreements or memoranda of understanding relating to acquisition or 
proposed acquisition of debt or receivables from a financial institution or other person; (e) 
certified copy of certificate of registration granted by the Board to the trustee under these 
regulations;  
(f) specimen of any other securitised debt instrument issued by the special purpose distinct 
entity which are listed or proposed to be listed;  
(g) any other document or particular as may be required by the stock exchange.  
(2) As a condition f or listing, the securitised debt instruments issued by a special purpose 
distinct entity shall have the following characteristics:  
(a) free transferability;  
(b) being in the nature of such undivided beneficial interest of the investors in the asset pool 
as is sp ecified in the scheme, and not constituting debt of the special purpose distinct 
entity or originator;  
(c) maintenance of a record of the holders thereof 90[***].  
(3) The special purpose distinct entity shall enter into a listing agreement with the 
recognised stock exchanges where the securitised debt instruments are proposed to be listed.  
(4) In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule (7) of rule 19 of the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, the Board hereby waives the strict enforcement of sub -
rules (1) to (3) of the said rule in relation to listing of securitised debt instrume nts issued in 
terms of these regulations, subject to compliance with these regulations.  
 
 
91[Listing Agreement. 
35A. (1) Every special purpose distinct entity desirous of listing securitised debt instruments 
on a recognised stock exchange, shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange. 
(2) 92[***] 
                                                 
90 Omitted “, whether holding the same in physical form or dematerialized form” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (I ssue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
91 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 1 -12-2015. 
92 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to omission, the regulation read 
as under:  
“(2) Every special purpose distinct entity which has previously entered into agreements with a recognised stock 
exchange to list securitised debt instruments shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such stock exchange

[Page 29]
93[. ]] 
 
Minimum public offering for listing  
36. (1) 94[***] 
(2) In case of a private placement of securitised debt instruments, the special purpose 
distinct entity shall ensure that it has obtained credit rating from a registered credit rating 
agency in respect of its securitised debt instruments.  
95[(3) In case of a private placement of securitised debt instruments, the special purpose 
distinct entity shall file listing particulars with the recognised stock excha nge, along with the 
application made under sub -regulation (1) of regulation 35, containing such information as 
may be necessary for any investor in the secondary market to make an informed investment 
decision in respect of its securitised debt instruments and the special purpose distinct entity 
shall promptly disseminate such information, as prescribed, in such manner as the recognised 
stock exchange(s) may determine from time to time.] 
(4) All credit ratings obtained pursuant to sub -regulation (2), including u naccepted 
ratings, if any, shall be disclosed in the listing particulars filed with the recognised stock 
exchange under sub-regulation (3).  
 
96[Advertisements for Public issues 
36A. (1) In respect of public offers of securitised debt instruments, the special purpose 
distinct entity or trustee thereof shall satisfy the recognised stock exchange to which a listing 
application is made that each scheme of securitised debt instruments was offered to the public 
for subscription through advertisements through electronic modes such as online newspapers 
or website of the issuer or the stock exchange, or in an English national daily and regional 
                                                                                                                                                        
within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.” 
93 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts )(Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 09-10-2018. Prior to this amendment, the regulation read as: 
“Security Deposit. 
35B. (1) The issuer shall deposit, before the opening of subscription list, and keep deposited with the stock 
exchange(s) an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent of the amount of securities offered for su bscription 
to the public. 
(2) The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner specified by Board and/or stock 
exchange(s). 
(3) The amount stipulated in sub -regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the manner specified by the 
Board.” 
94 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to omission, the regulation read 
as under:  
“(1) In respect of public offers of securitised debt instruments, the special purpose distinct entity or trustee 
thereof shall satisfy the recognised stock exchange to which a listing application is made that each scheme of 
securitised debt instruments was offered to the public for subscription through advertisements in newspapers for 
a period of not less than two days and that applications received in pursuance of the offer were allotted in 
accordance with these regulations and the disclosures made in the offer document.” 
95 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 1 -12-
2015. Prior to its substitution, said sub-regulation read as under : 
"(3) In case of a private placement of securitised debt instrume nts, the special purpose distinct entity shall file 
listing particulars with the recognised stock exchange along with the application made under sub -regulation (1) 
of regulation 35, containing such information as may be necessary for any investor in the se condary market to 
make an informed investment decision in respect of its securitised debt instruments."  
96 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 30]
daily with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated, on 
or before the issue opening date and such advertisement shall, amongst other things, contain 
the disclosures as specified in the Schedule VII: 
Provided that the special purpose distinct entity opting to adve rtise the public issue through 
electronic modes shall publish a notice, in an English national daily and regional daily 
newspaper with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the special 
purpose distinct entity or the debenture trustee  is situated, exhibiting a Quick Response Code 
and link to the complete advertisement. 
(2) No issuer shall issue an advertisement which is misleading or which contains any 
information in a distorted manner or which is manipulative or deceptive.  
(3) The ad vertisement shall be truthful, fair and clear and shall not contain a statement, 
promise or forecast which is untrue or misleading.  
(4) Any advertisement issued by the special purpose distinct entity shall not contain any 
matters which are extraneous to t he contents of the offer document and the advertisements 
shall not display models, celebrities, fictional characters, landmarks, caricatures or the likes 
for solicitation of the public issue.  
(5) The advertisement shall solicit investment only on the basi s of information contained in 
the offer document.  
(6) Any corporate or product advertisement issued by the special purpose distinct entity from 
the date of filing of the draft offer document with the stock exchange(s) till the issue closure 
date, shall not make any reference to the issue of securitised debt instruments or be used for 
solicitation for securitised debt instruments.  
(7) The credit rating shall be prominently displayed in the advertisement.] 
 
97[Continous listing conditions. 
37. The special pu rpose distinct entity or trustee thereof shall submit such information, 
including financial information relating to the schemes, to the stock exchanges and investors 
and comply with such other continuing obligations as may be stipulated in the listing 
agreement.] 
 
Trading of securitised debt instruments  
38. The securitised debt instruments issued to the public or on a private placement basis, 
which are listed in recognised stock exchanges, shall be traded and such trades shall be 
                                                 
97 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 1 -12-
2015. Prior to its substitution, said sub-regulation read as under : 
"37. Continuous listing conditions. — (1) The special purpose distinct entity or trustee thereof shall submit such 
information, including financial information relating to the schemes, to the stock exchanges and investors and 
comply with such other continuing obligations as may be stipulated in the listin g agreement. 
 
(2) Every rating obtained by a special purpose distinct entity under sub -regulation (1) of regulation 25 or under 
sub-regulation (2) of regulation 36 shall be periodically (not later than one year) reviewed by the registered 
credit rating age ncy and any revision in the rating shall be promptly disclosed by the special purpose distinct 
entity to the recognised stock exchanges where the securitised debt instruments are listed.  
 
(3) The information filed with a recognised stock exchange under sub -regulation (3) of regulation 36 and sub -
regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation shall be promptly disseminated to investors and prospective investors 
in such manner as the recognised stock exchange may be determined."

[Page 31]
cleared and settled in recogni sed stock exchanges subject to conditions specified by the 
Board.  
 
98[CHAPTER VII A 
ISSUANCE AND LISTING OF SECURITY RECEIPTS 
ELIGIBILITY 
 
38A. An issuer proposing to issue and list security receipts or only list its already issued 
security receipts shall comply with the provisions of this chapter. 
 
38B. Security receipts proposed to be listed in terms of this chapter shall; 
i. be issued in compliance with the  applicable rules and guidelines, as framed by the 
Reserve Bank of India, from time to time; 
ii. be issued on a private placement basis; 
iii. comply with the provisions pertaining to issue of security receipts,; 
 
Sale of security receipts by the existing holders 
38C. (1) Any existing holder of security receipts, who proposes to sell, whole or part of, its 
holding of security receipts to the qualified buyers on private placement basis, where such 
security receipts are proposed to be listed, may do so, in accordance with the provisions of 
this Chapter. 
 
Provided that such sale by any holder of security receipts shall be permitted only if the 
holding is not less than fifty percent of the outstanding security receipts. 
 
(2) A sale of security receipts by any existing holder of such security receipts under these 
regulations, shall be subject to the issuer compulsorily lis ting the security receipts before 
complying with the provisions of this chapter. 
 
Conditions for Listing of Security Receipts  
38D. (1) An issuer may list its security receipts on a recognized stock exchange subject to the 
following conditions: 
(a) the security receipts have been issued on a private placement basis; 
(b) the issuer has issued such security receipts in compliance with the applicable laws; 
(c) the offer or invitation to subscribe to security receipts shall be made to such number of 
persons not exceeding t wo hundred or such other number, in a financial year, as may be 
prescribed from time to time. 
(d) the security receipts proposed to be listed are in dematerialized form;  
(e) the disclosures as provided in regulation 38E have been made in the offer document; 
(f) the minimum allotment made to the qualified buyers is Rs. 10 lakhs; 
(g) such security receipts have been valued prior to listing; 
Provided that such valuation shall not be more than three months old from the date of listing 
and shall be done by an independent valuer; 
(h) the security receipts have been rated by a credit rating agency registered with the Board.   
                                                 
98 Inserted by the SEBI (Public Off er and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018.

[Page 32]
Provided that such rating shall not be more than three months old from the date of listing. 
 
(2) The issuer shall comply with the conditions of listing of such security receipts as specified 
in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
 
Offer Document 
38E. (1) An issuer seeking listing of security receipts on a recognized stock exchange sh all 
make such disclosures in the offer document as specified by the Reserve Bank of India from 
time to time, and as specified in 99[Schedule VI] of these regulations.  
 
Provided that the offer document shall not contain any false or misleading statement and shall 
disclose all material facts.  
 
(2) The offer document as provided in sub -regulation (1) shall be made available for 
download on the web sites of stock exchanges where such securities are listed.  
 
38F. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Rules, 1957, the Board shall waive the strict enforcement of sub -rules (1) to (3) 
of the said rule in relation to listing of security receipts issued in terms of these regulations, 
subject to compliance with these regulations.  
 
 
 
 
Valuation, rating and NAV disclosure  
38G. (1) An issuer whose security receipts are listed on a recognized stock exchange shall 
ensure that: 
a) the listed security receipts are valued at the end of each quarter  i.e. as on Ma rch 31, 
June 30, September 30 and December 31 of every year, 
b) valuation is conducted by an independent valuer; and 
c) the net asset value is calculated on the basis of such independent valuation and the 
same is declared by the asset reconstruction company within fifteen days of the end of 
the quarter. 
 
(2) The issuer shall also comply with the extant Reserve Bank of India requirement of 
obtaining credit rating of security receipts at half yearly interval and declaration of the net 
asset value thereafter and /or any other requirement as prescribed by the Reserve Bank of 
India from time to time. 
 
Provided that in those two quarters in a year, where both external valuation and credit rating 
are required, issuer shall disclose lower of the two calculated NAVs.  
 
Trading of security receipts 
                                                 
99  Substituted for “ Schedule VA ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 33]
38H. (1) The security receipts issued on a private placement basis, which are listed on 
recognised stock exchanges, shall be traded and such trades shall be cleared and settled in 
recognised stock exchanges subject to conditions specified by the Board.  
 
(2) The trading lot of the security receipts shall not be less than Rs 10 lakh. 
 
(3) The trades of security receipts which have been made over the counter, shall be reported 
on a recognized stock exchange having a nation -wide trading terminal or such other platform 
as may be specified by the Board.  
 
(4) The Board may specify conditions for reporting of trades on the recognized stock 
exchange or other platform referred to in sub-regulation (3).] 
 
 
 
CHAPTER VIII  
INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS  
 
Power to call for information  
39. The Board may call for information from the originator, special purpose distinct 
entity, trustee (whether registered with the Board or not), sponsor, servicers, underwriters, 
credit enhancers, liquidity providers or any other person associated with securit isation or any 
regulated activity.  
 
 
Right of inspection by the Board.  
40. (1) Without prejudice to provisions of sections 11 and 11C of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board may appoint one or more persons 
to undertake the inspection of the books of account, records and documents of the special 
purpose distinct entity or any of its schemes or its trustee (whether registered with the Board 
or not) or servicer or any other agent for any of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).  
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows, namely:-  
(a) to verify whether the books of account are being maintained and valuations are being 
done in a proper manner;  
(b) to verify whether the provisions of the Act, the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the rules and regulations made thereunder are being complied 
with; (c) to inquire into the complaints received from investors, other market part icipants or 
any other persons on any matter having a bearing on the regulated activities of the special 
purpose distinct entity;  
(d) to inquire into affairs of the special purpose distinct entity suo -moto in the interest of 
investor protection or the integrit y of the market in so far as it relates to its regulated 
activities;  
(e) to inquire whether securitisation or regulated activity is being carried on as per 
provisions of the Act and these regulations; (f) to inquire whether the Code of Conduct has 
been observed.  
 
Notice before inspection.

[Page 34]
41. (1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 40, the Board shall give a 
reasonable notice to the special purpose distinct entity or other person.  
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -regulation (1), where  the Board is 
satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an 
order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the special purpose distinct entity or 
other person be  taken up without such notice.  
(3) During the course of inspection the special purpose distinct entity and other persons 
shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided under regulation 42.  
 
Obligations of special purpose distinct entities on inspection.  
42. (1) It shall be the du ty of every director, trustee, officer, employee, servicer or any other 
agent of the special purpose distinct entity who is being inspected to produce to the inspecting 
authority such books of accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furn ish 
him with such statements and information relating to regulated activities of the special 
purpose distinct entity as he may require within the specified time.  
(2) The persons mentioned in sub -regulation (1) shall allow the inspecting authority to 
have a re asonable access to the premises occupied by such special purpose distinct entity or 
by any other person, on its behalf and also extend reasonable facility for examining any 
books, records, documents, computer systems and computer data in the possession of the 
special purpose distinct entity or any such other person and also provide copies of documents 
or other material which in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant for the purposes 
of the inspection.  
(3) The inspecting authority shall in the cou rse of inspection, be entitled to examine or 
record statements of any principal officer, director, partner, proprietor and employee of the 
special purpose distinct entity or the other person whose records or other documents are 
being inspected.  
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer, employee, servicer or 
other agent of the special purpose distinct entity or the other person whose records or other 
documents are being inspected to give to the inspecting authority all assistance  in connection 
with the inspection which the special purpose distinct entity may reasonably be expected to 
give.  
 
Appointment of auditor or valuer.  
43. (1) The Board may appoint a qualified auditor to inspect the books of account or inquire 
into the affa irs of the special purpose distinct entity, servicer or other agent of the special 
purpose distinct entity in so far as it concerns its regulated activities:  
Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting authority 
as are mentioned in regulation 40 and the obligation of the special purpose distinct entity and 
its employees in regulation 42 shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation. 
Explanation: For the purposes of this sub -regulation, the expression  "qualified auditor" shall 
have the meaning derived from 100[section 141 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).] 
(2) The Board may appoint a valuer or direct a valuer to be appointed, if so required in 
the interest of investors in a scheme for the purpose of p roper valuation of asset pools 
acquired or held by a special purpose distinct entity.  
                                                 
100 Substituted for “section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regul ations, 
2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 35]
(3) The expenses of such audit under sub -regulation (1) or valuation under sub-regulation 
(2) shall be borne by the originator, trustee, or other person if so specified by the Board.  
 
Submission of report to the Board.  
44. (1) The inspecting authority shall, as soon as may be possible, submit an inspection report 
to the Board.  
(2) On submission of the inspection report, the Board may take such action thereon as it may 
deem fit and appropriate.  
 
CHAPTER IX  
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT  
 
Cancellation or suspension of registration.  
45. (1) The registration granted under regulation 6 to a trustee who -  
(a) fails to comply with any conditions subject to which certificate has been granted;  
(b) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) or the regulations made thereunder – may be cancelled or 
suspended by the Board:  
Provided that no such registration shall be cancelled or suspended unless the trustee has been 
given an opportunity of being heard in the manner as applicable in respect of cancellation or 
suspension of registration granted to any int ermediary under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992.  
(2) While passing an order of suspension or cancellation of  registration of a trustee, the 
Board may also direct [the appointment of a new trustee in place of the trustee whose 
registration is suspended or cancelled, ]101 within such period and in such manner as may be 
directed.  
[***]102 
(3) Notwithstanding the cancellation of certificate, the trustee shall, subject to such 
directions as the Board may deem appropriate, ensure compliance of the Act,  these 
regulations, any circular issued thereunder and the listing agreement, until another registered 
trustee is appointed in his place or the special purpose distinct entity winds up its schemes 
and repays to the investors, whichever is earlier.  
(4) Nothing contained in this regulation shall be deemed to prejudice the operation of 
sections 12A, 21A, 23, 23A, 23C, 23E, 23H and 23M of the Act, sections 11, 11B, 11D and 
24 and Chapter VIA of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) 
and rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.  
 
 
Directions   
46. Without prejudice to actions under the Act, the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) and regulation 45, the Board may in the interest of the securiti es 
                                                 
101 Substituted for “winding up of schemes of the special purpose distinct entity ” by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026. 
102 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026. Prior to its omission it read as 
“Explanation: For the purpose of this sub -regulation, “winding up of schemes” shall mean liquidation of the 
asset pool and repayment of the proceeds thereof to the investors in the scheme. ”.

[Page 36]
market, in the interest of the investors or for the purpose of securing the proper management 
of any special purpose distinct entity or trustee (whether registered with the Board or not), 
pass, any or all of the following directions:  
(a) directing the originator or any other persons associated with securitisation or regulated 
activity to refund any money collected under an issue to the investors with or without 
requisite interest, as the case may be;  
(b) directing the persons associated with securitisation or regulated activity concerned not 
to access the capital market or not to deal in securities or securitised debt instruments for a 
particular period or not to engage in securitisation or regulated activities;  
(c) directing the recognised stock  exchange concerned not to permit trading in the 
securitised debt instruments;  
(d) directing the recognised stock exchange concerned to suspend trading in securitised 
debt instruments;  
(e) any other direction which the Board may deem fit and proper in the circum stances of 
the case:  
Provided that before issuing any directions the Board may give a reasonable opportunity of 
being heard to the person concerned:  
Provided further that if any interim direction is required to be passed, the Board may give 
post decisional hearing to such person.  
 
Appeal   
47. A person aggrieved by an order of  the Board or Adjudicating Officer under the Act, 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) or these regulations or 
refusal of listing by a recognised stock exc hange may prefer an appeal to the Securities 
Appellate Tribunal in accordance with section 23L of the Act read with the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) (Appeal to Securities Appellate Tribunal) Rules, 2000, or section 15T 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) read with the Securities 
Appellate Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 2000.  
 
 
 
 
103[CHAPTER IX-A 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
47A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or 
any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding 
twelve months, for furthering innovation 104[***] relating to testing new prod ucts, processes, 
services,  business  models,  etc.  in live  environment  of  regulatory  sandbox  in the  
securities markets.(2) Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub -regulation  (1)  
shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such co nditions as may be specified by the 
Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. 
                                                 
103 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 
104 The words “in technological aspects” omitted by the Securities and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021.

[Page 37]
Explanation. —For  the  purposes  of  these  regulations,  "regulatory  sandbox"  means  alive 
testing environment where  new products,  processes,  services, business  models,  etc. maybe 
deployed on a limited set of eligible  customers  for a specified period of time, for furthering 
innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  
the Board.] 
 
CHAPTER X 
MISCELLANEOUS  
 
Power of the Board to issue clarifications.  
48. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these 
regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars.  
 
Delegation of powers  
49. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by 
any officer of the Board to whom such powers are delegated by the Board by means of an 
order made under section 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board o f India Act, 1992 (15 of 
1992).  
 
Applicability of other Laws  
50. The provisions of these regulations are without prejudice to the duties of the trustees or 
special purpose distinct entity or other parties to the securitisation under the Indian Trusts 
Act, 1882 (2 of 1882) or any other law for the time being in force.

[Page 38]
SCHEDULE I  
105[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008]  
[See regulations 4(3) and 6(2)]  
FORMS  
FORM A  
APPLICATION FORM FOR SEEKING REGISTRATION  
Name of applicant.......................………………………..……………………………..  
Contact person. ................................…………………..……………………………..  
Name of the Compliance officer...............................................................………….  
Telephone No. : ...................................................Fax No. ..................................... e-mail. 
Website: ………………………………..  
Instruction for filling up form:—  
1. Applicants must submit a completed application form together with appropriate 
supporting documents to the Board.  
2. It is important that this application form should be filled in accordance with the 
regulations.  
3. Information which needs to be supplied in more details may be given on separate 
sheets which should be attached to the application form.  
4. The application must be signed by the competent person having authority to do so and 
all signatures must be in original.  
DETAILS OF SPONSOR  
1. Name of the sponsor-  
2. Address of the registered office/correspondence address - 
Telephone Nos. Telex Nos. Fax Nos. E-mail address  
Website address  
3. Name of the contact person-  
4. Date and place of incorporation of the sponsor (Enclose a copy of 
certificate of incorporation) 5. Objects of the sponsor.  
(Enclose copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Association)  
Main objects- Ancillary 
objects-  
6. Capital structure and shareholding pattern.  
7. Present line of business activities-  
Number of years in that line  
8. Condensed financial information.  
(Enclose balance sheets and profit and loss account for five years) 9. 
Accounting policies.  
(Furnish description of significant accounting policies)  
10. Systems and procedures  
(Furnish description of systems and procedures in the company and essential internal controls 
in order to carry on the business of the company)  
11. Names of the associate organisations/group companies/subsidiaries, etc.  
                                                 
105  Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Secu ritised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018.

[Page 39]
12. Management of the sponsor Board of the company with nam es, experience, qualification, 
and profession of the Directors.  
Names of key personnel-  
Organisational structure-  
Board of Directors of associate organisations, companies and subsidiaries.  
13. Names and addresses of the bankers of the sponsor.  
14. Names and addresses of the auditors of the sponsor.  
15. Court cases/litigations in which the sponsor may have been involved in the last three 
years.  
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION  
(A) Income statement  
Years (Rs.) 1 
2 3 4 5 
Income:  
Dividend  
Trading  
Management Fee  
Other income   
Total ___________________ Expenses:  
Director’s remuneration  
Trusteeship fees  
Custodian fees  
Registrar’s fees  
Other expenses  
Total _____________________  
Gross Profit  
Depreciation  
Net profit before tax  
Tax  
Profit after tax  
Dividends Retained 
earnings  
(B) Assets and liabilities  
Years (Rs.) 1 
2 3 4 5 
Assets:  
Fixed Assets Gross  
Depreciation  
Net value  
Current assets ______________________  
Investments*  
Others (please specify) Cash 
and bank balances Less:  
Current liabilities and  
Provisions  
Net worth _______________________ Represented 
by:  
Issued and paid up capital

[Page 40]
Free reserves  
(excluding revaluation reserves)  
Total _______________________ *Provide 
full particulars of investments.  
……………………………………………………………………………………… FORM B  
Format of letter of registration  
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 17A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
Act, 1956 read with regulation 6 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Public Offer 
and Listing o f Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008 made thereunder, the Board 
hereby grants registration to.................... as a trustee entitled to act as a trustee to a special 
purpose distinct entity offering securitised debt instruments to the publi c and / or seeking 
listing for such instruments on a recognised stock exchange.  
Date....................  
By order  
Sd/-  
For and on behalf of the  
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
 
SCHEDULE II  
106[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008]  
[See regulations 4(3), 6(1), 7(b) and 22(2)]  
FEES  
1. The fees payable under these regulations by an applicant or trustee or special purpose 
distinct entity shall be as follows:  
A. Application fees Rs. 25,000/- (twenty five thousand rupees)  
B. Registration fees 107[Rs.1,00,000/- (one lakh rupees)]  
C. Annual fees 108[Rs.25,000/- (twenty five thousand rupees)]  
D. Filing fees for offer documents 0.03 per cent of the amount raised in the public offer, 
subject to a minimum of 109[one lakh rupees and a maximum of five lakh rupees].  
2. The fees mentioned in paragraph 1 shall b e paid 110[by way of direct credit in the bank 
account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or ] by means of a 
demand draft drawn in favour of the ‘Securities and Exchange Board of India’ payable at 
Mumbai.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
106  Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
107 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees)(Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f May 23, 2014. 
108 Ibid. 
109 Ibid. 
110 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f.         
6-3-2017.

[Page 41]
SCHEDULE - III 
111[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008] 
[See regulation 7(g)]  
CODE OF CONDUCT  
1. Schemes of a special purpose distinct entity shall not be organised, operated, managed 
in the interest of the originator or sponsor or a special class of investors. Interests of all 
classes of investors of the scheme shall be taken into account in such organisation, operation 
and management.  
2. A special purpose distinct entity and its trus tee shall ensure the dissemination to all 
investors of adequate, accurate, explicit and timely information fairly presented in a simple 
language about the asset pools, transactions & arrangements with originator, credit enhancer, 
underwriter, liquidity provider, securitised debt instruments, financial position, credit ratings 
and general affairs of the scheme or any other party to the securitisation or regulated activity.  
3. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall avoid conflicts of interest i n 
managing the affairs of the schemes and other regulated activities and shall keep the interest 
of all investors paramount in all matters.  
112[3A. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall ensure that good corporate 
policies and corporate gov ernance is in place and shall develop internal code of conduct for 
governing its internal operations and laying down standards of appropriate conduct for its 
employees for carrying out their duties. Such a code may extend to the maintenance of 
professional excellence and standards, integrity, confidentiality, objectivity, avoidance of 
conflict of interests, disclosure of shareholdings and interests, etc.] 
4. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall ensure scheme -wise segregation 
of bank accounts, asset pools and securitised debt instruments holders’ accounts or folios.  
5. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall carry out the business in 
accordance with objectives stated in the offer documents and take decision solely in the 
interest of investors.  
6. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall not use any unfair or unethical 
means, directly or indirectly, to sell or market the securitised debt instruments or induce any 
investor to buy such instruments.  
7. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall not employ any unfair or 
unethical means in valuation and conversion of asset pools or in the course of securitisation 
or any other regulated activity.  
8. A special purpose distinct entity and its trust ee shall maintain high standards of 
integrity and fairness in all their dealings and in the conduct of their business.  
9. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall render at all times high standards 
of service, exercise due diligence and independent professional judgment and take reasonable 
care and skill in performing its functions.  
10. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall not make any exaggerated 
statement, whether oral or written, either about their qualifications or capabilit y to render 
services or their achievements or in respect of asset pools.  
                                                 
111  Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
112 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 42]
11. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall always ensure that the debt and 
receivables acquired by it are through a genuine transaction amounting to a true sale and 
legally realizable by it.  
113[12. A special purpose distinct entity and its tru stee shall fulfill its obligations in a prompt, 
ethical and professional manner.  
13. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall not divulge to anybody either orally 
or in writing, directly or indirectly, any confidential information about its inv estors which 
has come to its knowledge, without taking prior permission of its investors, except where 
such disclosures are required to be made in compliance with any law for the time being in 
force.  
14. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee or an y of its directors, partners or 
managers, shall not either through its account or through associates or family members, 
relatives or friends indulge in any insider trading.  
15. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall have internal control proc edures and 
financial and operational capabilities which can be reasonably expected to protect its 
operations, its investors and other registered entities from financial loss arising from theft, 
fraud, and other dishonest acts, professional misconduct or omissions.  
16. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall ensure that good corporate policies 
and corporate governance is in place and shall develop internal code of conduct for 
governing its internal operations and laying down standards of appropr iate conduct for its 
employees for carrying out their duties.  
17. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall not be party to—  
i. creation of false market;  
ii. price rigging or manipulation.]  
114[iii passing of unpublished price sensitive information in  respect of securities which are 
listed and proposed to be listed in any stock exchange to any person or intermediary.] 
115[18. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall take all reasonable steps to establish 
the true and full identity of each of its clients, and of each client’s financial situation and 
maintain record of the same. 
19. The trustee shall ensure that any change in registration status or any penal action taken by 
Board or any material change in financial position which may adversely affect the interests of 
investors is promptly informed to the clients and any business remaining outstanding is 
transferred to another registered intermediary in accordance with any instructions of the 
affected clients.  
20. A special purpose distinct en tity and its trustee shall put in place a mechanism to resolve 
any conflict of interest situation that may arise in the conduct of its business or where any 
conflict of interest arises, shall take reasonable steps to resolve the same in an equitable 
manner. 
21. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall make appropriate disclosure to the 
client of its possible source or potential areas of conflict of duties and interest while acting as 
trustee which would impair its ability to render fair, objective and unbiased services. 
                                                 
113Inserted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. April 9, 2015. 
114 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listi ng of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
115 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 43]
22. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall not indulge in any unfair 
competition, which is likely to harm the interests of other trustees or subscriber to the 
securitised debt instrument or is likely to place s uch other trustees in a disadvantageous 
position while competing for or executing any assignment nor shall it wean away the clients 
of another trustee on assurance of lower fees. 
23. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall not discriminate among schemes or 
their clients, except and save on ethical and commercial considerations. 
24. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall share information available with it 
regarding special purpose distinct entity with registered credit rating agencies. 
25. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall provide the holders of securitised 
debt instrument with adequate and appropriate information about its business, including 
contact details, services available to holders, and the ident ity and status of employees and 
others acting on its behalf with whom the  holder may have to contact. 
26. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall ensure that adequate disclosures are 
made to the holders of securitised debt instrument and security receipt, in a comprehensible 
and timely manner so as to enable them to make a balanced and informed decision. 
27. A trustee shall endeavour to ensure that— 
(a) inquiries from holders of securitised debt instrument and security receipt are 
adequately dealt with; 
(b) grievances of holders of securitised debt instrument and security receipt are 
redressed in a timely and appropriate manner; and 
(c) where a complaint is not remedied promptly, the holders of securitised debt 
instrument and security receipt is advised of any further steps which may be available 
to the investor under the regulatory system.  
28. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall make reasonable efforts to avoid 
misrepresentation and ensure that the information provided to the investor is not misleading. 
29. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall maintain required level of knowledge 
and competency and abide by the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), regulations and circulars and guidelines. 
30. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall not make untrue statement or 
suppress any material fact in any documents, reports, papers or information furnished to the 
Board. 
31. A special purpose distinct entit y and its trustee ensure that the Board is promptly 
informed about any action, legal proceeding, etc., initiated against it in respect of any 
material breach or non -compliance by it, of any law, rules, regulations, directions of the 
Board or of any other regulatory body. 
32. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee or any of his employees shall not render, 
directly or indirectly, any investment advice about any security in the publicly accessible 
media, whether real-time or non-real-time unless a disclosure of his interest including long or 
short position in the said security has been made, while rendering such advice. 
33. In case the special purpose distinct entity and its trustee is rendering such advice, such 
entity shall ensure that he discloses  his interest, the interest of his dependent family members 
and that of the employer, including their long or short position in the said security, while 
rendering such advice. 
34. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall ensure that any pers on it employs or 
appoints to conduct business is fit and proper and otherwise qualified to act in the capacity so 
employed or appointed (including having relevant professional training or experience).

[Page 44]
35. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee s hall ensure that it has adequate resources 
to supervise diligently and does supervise diligently persons employed or appointed by it to 
conduct business on its behalf. 
36. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall have internal control proced ures and 
financial and operational capabilities which can be reasonably expected to protect its 
operations, its clients, investor and other registered entities from financial loss arising from 
theft, fraud, and other dishonest acts, professional misconduct or omissions. 
37. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall be responsible for the acts or 
omissions of its employees and agents in respect to the conduct of its business. 
38. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall provide a dequate freedom and 
powers to its compliance officer for the effective discharge of its duties. 
39. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall ensure that the senior management, 
particularly decision makers, have access to all relevant informa tion about the business on a 
timely basis.] 
 
SCHEDULE IV  
116[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts)] Regulations, 2008]  
(See regulation 9)  
Contents of Instrument of Trust  
The Trust Deed or other constitutional document shall contain the following, namely:—  
1. That the trustees shall take into their custody, or under their control the debts or 
receivables of the schemes of the special purpose distinct entity and hold it in tru st for the 
benefit of investors.  
2. That the investors in the securitised debt instruments have such beneficial interest in the 
underlying debt or receivables as may have been conferred by the scheme.  
3. That the trustees themselves do not have any beneficial interest in the underlying debts or 
receivables.  
4. The duties and obligations of the trustees shall be clearly specified.  
5. The particulars of interest or association of the trustees which they may have with the 
originator or the sponsor. The trustees shall also furnish to the board of trustees or trustee 
company particulars of interest or association which they may have in originator or 
sponsor.  
6. The originator or any of its associates does not exercise control over the trustee.  
7. The trustees shall act in th e interest of the investors and they shall provide or cause to 
provide information and disclosures to investors and Board as may be specified by the 
Board.  
8. The trustees shall take reasonable and due care to ensure that the funds raised under the 
schemes l aunched by the special purpose distinct entity are in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act and these regulations.  
9. The details of the Trust Property.  
10. The trustee shall issue certificate or instrument (by whatever name called) evidencing the 
beneficial interest of the investors in the debt or receivables assigned to the special 
purpose distinct entity.  
                                                 
116  Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018.

[Page 45]
11. Declaration that the trustees and the special purpose distinct entity shall not make or 
guarantee loans or take up any activity which is not a regulate d activity in terms of these 
regulations.  
12. Broad policies regarding allocation of payments  
13. The trustee shall furnish annual report about the pool performance and the investor 
servicing to the investors.  
14. Trusteeship fee, if any, payable to trustees  
15. No amendment to the Trust Deed which prejudicially affects the interest of investors shall 
be carried out.  
16. 117[***] 
17. The Trust Deed shall lay down the procedure for seeking approval of the investors under 
such circumstances as are specified in the Regulations.  
 
SCHEDULE V  
118[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008] 
(See regulation 26)  
DISCLOSURES TO BE MADE IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT  
The offer letter shall contain all material information which shall be true and adequate so as 
to enable the investors to make informed decision on the investments in the issue.  
1.0 Cover Page Requirement  
1.1 The front and back inside and outside of the cover pages of the offer document 
shall be white and no patterns or pictures shall be printed on these pages.  
1.2. The front outside cover page of the offer document shall contain the following details:  
a) The name of the issuer, the address of the issuer including its registered office, if any ;  
b) Name of the trustee, address of registered office, along with its telephone number, fax 
number, contact person, website address and e-mail address;  
c) The name of the Originator, the address of its registered office along with its telephone 
number, fax number, contact person, website address and e mail address;  
d) The title of the securitised debt instruments , expected maturity, coupons, their ratings;  
e) The number, nature, price , amount and issue size of securitised debt instruments offered 
through the offer document;  
f) Asset type being securitised along with the nature of transaction ;  
g) Issue Schedule:  
(a) Date of opening of the issue  
(b) Date of the closing of the issue  
h) Name/s of the stock exchanges where listing of the securitised debt instruments is 
proposed;  
i) The following disclaimer shall be made prominently in the first page of the offer 
document: “The submission of draft offer docum ent to the Board should not in any way be 
deemed or construed that the same has been approved by SEBI. SEBI does not take 
responsibility for the financial soundness of the scheme launched by the issuer.  
                                                 
117 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securi tised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to omission, the clause read 
as under:  
“16. The removal of the trustee in all cases would require the prior approval of the Board.”  
118  Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018.

[Page 46]
Neither SEBI nor the stock exchanges are responsible  for the correctness of any statements, 
opinions or other disclosures contained in this offer document. The registration granted by 
SEBI to the trustee should not be taken as an indication of the merits of the issuer, the 
originator or the securitised debt instruments.”  
2.0 Table of Contents, definitions and abbreviations.  
2.1 Table of Contents shall appear immediately after the front inside cover page  2.2 
The definitions and abbreviations, if any, shall appear after the Table of Contents.  
3.0 Objects of the Offer.  
A brief description about the objects of the offer and proposed end use of funds shall be given 
in the offer document.  
4.0 Summary information  
4.1 The following information may be provided in succinct form to enable the investor to get 
a quick idea of the transaction, followed by elaborate details in the offer document:  
(a) Description of the securitised debt instruments;  
(b) Brief description of the asset pool, including transaction type – cash, synthetic, balance 
sheet/ repackaging, etc.  
(c) Names of principal parties to the transaction – originator, issuer, trustee, credit 
enhancement provider, liquidity facility provider, any swap counterparty, servicer, 
depository, principal underwriter, collection and payment account bank, etc.  
(d) Nominal amount of each class/ tranche of the securitised debt instruments and the issue  
and redemption prices and nominal interest rate, interest type – fixed or floating;  
(e) Any class tranche not being offered to the public through offer document   
(f) Ratings of each class/tranche  
(g) Credit enhancements for each class of securitised debt instruments  
(h) Expected interest and principal payment dates;  
(i) Expected maturity date of each class of securitised debt instruments  
(j) Legal final maturity of the scheme;  
(k) Optional redemptions, if any;  
(l) Description of underlying asset pool;  
(m) If there is a possibility of extension or shortening of such period, then it  shall be 
disclosed;  
(n) Declaration about the possibility of premature winding up of the scheme in case of 
prepayments;  
(o) Liquidity support, if any  
(p) Terms of payment and cash flow, distinguishing, where appropriate, allocation of revenue 
receipts and principal receipts;  
4.2 One standard financial unit shall be used in the offer document.  
119[4.3 Summary term sheet inc luding at least following information (wherever relevant) 
pertaining to the securitised debt instrument:-  
 
                                                 
119 Inserted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2015 w.e.f. April 9, 2015.

[Page 47]
Originators  
________, __________ (each referred to as an “ Originator” and 
collectively referred to as the “Originators”)  
Trustee  [name of trustee]  
Issuer  [name of special purpose distinct entity(SPDE)]  
Trust Property   
Initial Contribution to the 
SPDE  
INR [ ]  
Transaction Size   INR [ ]  
Pool  Principal  on  
Settlement  Date  
INR [ ]  
Pool Cut Off  Date  
[date]  
[Specify future cut offs (if revolving in nature) or purchase of future 
receivables]  
Settlement  Date  [date]  
Payout  Dates  [date]  
Transaction  Structure  
Each Originator proposes to sell the following assets to the Issuer on 
the Settlement Date:  
[nature of assets]  
[description of assets]  
[amount]  
The aggregate of the assets shall be referred to as the “Total Pool”.

[Page 48]
[specify if par / premium / discount deal]  
The Issuer intends to issue [ ] securitised debt instruments 
representing an undivided beneficial interest in the Issuer's property 
including the Pool.   
[specify if there are future sales]  
Receivables  
[detailed description of the receivables]  
[Aggregate of all the receivables]  
Disclosure on key pool 
features composition  and  
LTV-based, tenure-based, ticket size based distribution etc  
Collection Period  
 
________________  
Servicer   _______, _________  (individually referred to as a “ Servicer” and 
collectively referred to as the “Servicers”)  
• Obligations  of  the  Servicer(s)  (including 
 reporting obligations)  
• Events of default of the Servicer(s)  
• Right to change the Servicer(s)  
 Servicer  Fee  
Incentives  
and  [ ]  
Legal Counsel  
_______________  
[specify whom the Counsel represents]

[Page 49]
Credit  Enhancement  
for the Transaction  • Internal credit enhancement available for each class of securitised 
debt instruments, expressed in absolute amounts and as a 
proportion of the Pool Principal  
• External credit enhancement available for each class of 
securitised debt instruments, expressed in absolute amounts and 
as a proportion of the Pool Principal  
 
 • Annexure that indicates how the above credit enhancement has 
been calculated, along with assumptions  
• Provider of credit enhancement   
Utilisation process and 
conditions for utilization 
of Credit  
Enhancement  
[ ]  
Name of Designated bank 
(with which Cash 
Collateral and / or 
Collection and payment  
Account is maintained)   
 
Swap  
Nature of the swap  
Swap counterparty, rating of the swap counterparty  
Refund / top up of  
Credit Enhancement  
[ ]  
Clean-Up Call Option  [ ]  
Details of Listing  - Timing for listing  
- Conditions for remaining listed  
- Consequence of de-listing

[Page 50]
Rating Agency(ies)  [ ]  
Series  of 
 securitised debt 
instruments  
[specify seniority and subordination]  
Day count convention  [ ]  
  Series  A1  
 Securitised  Debt  
Instruments 
 Series  A2  
 Securitised  Debt  
Instruments 
 Series  A3  
 Securitised  Debt  
Instruments 
 
Seniority     
Face Value     
Initial rating     
Final Maturity Date     
Expected Maturity  
Date  
   
Expected Yield     
Payment Schedule     
Expected 
schedule   
payment     
Promised 
schedule  
payment     
First Payout Date     
Portfolio Audit

[Page 51]
Eligibility Criteria for the 
Receivables  Regulatory requirements  
Investor requirements (concentration etc.)  
 Minimum  Holding  
Period, if any   
Minimum Holding Period, if any, during which the receivables are 
held by the Originator  
 Minimum  Retention  
Requirement 120[***]  
Continuing stake, if any, of Originator, if any, on the receivables  
Details of Transaction  
Documents  
 
Applicable Law and  
Jurisdiction  
 
Waterfall Mechanism  
Rules for cash flow to each investor and swap counterparty, and 
treatment of excess interest / residual cash flows and treatment , in case 
of prepayment of underlying loans or change in interest rate on loan   
]  
5.0 Risks involved  
a) Description of the Assets and Debtors.  
b) Default Risk / Credit Risk related to the assets.  
c) Delinquency Risk.  
d) Dilution Risk, that is to say, any possible changes in the credit quality of the pool, excess 
spread or other factors over time.  
e) Correlation Risk.  
f) Servicing risk, including risks and costs involved in any transition of the servicer  
g) Prepayment Risk.  
h) Liquidity Risk.  
i) Currency, Interest and Other Risks.  
j) Potential loss on securities due to limited assets of special purpose distinct entity.  
k) Risks arising out of geographic concentration of receivables, if any.  
[l) Concentration risk arising due to single asset securitisation.]121 
[m)]122 Any other risk specific to the transaction and asset class.  
                                                 
120 Omitted “, if any” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
121 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue a nd Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026.

[Page 52]
5.1. The issuer’s perception about such risk factors shall be disclosed together with 
detailed descriptions of the measures if any that have been taken or that are proposed 
to be taken by the issuer to mitigate such risks.  
5.2. In addition to the risk factors specific to investment in securitised debt 
instruments as above, disclosure shall also be made of the normal risks associated 
with investing in securities as mentioned in the Guidelines or Regulations  of the 
Board relating to issue of capital, to the extent applicable.  
6.0 Disclaimers  
The following disclaimers shall also be made in bold font in the offer document:  
(a) that the securitised debt instruments do not represent deposits, liabilities of the 
originator, servicer or special purpose distinct entity and that they are not insured;  
(b) that the special purpose distinct entity, originator or servicer does not guarantee the 
capital value of the securitised debt instruments or the collectibility of the asset pool.  
7.0 Details about public offer  
7.1 The following details about the public offer shall be disclosed in the offer 
document a) Minimum application.  
b) Minimum subscription – disclosure of method of calculation and disclosure of the sources 
of funds if the wh ole or any part of the expenditure mentioned in regulation 31 are to be 
met otherwise than out of issue proceeds.  
c) Interest rate on application money.  
d) Period of offer - opening and closing dates.  
e) Manner of making application for certificates and instruments and the addresses of the 
places where the applications would be accepted.  
f) Manner of declaration of results of the public offer.  
g) Methods and time limits for delivery of securitised debt instrum ents to successful 
applicants and of refunds of application moneys to unsuccessful applicants.  
h) 123[***]  
i) Brief description of the basis of allotment and procedure which will be followed in case of 
over-subscription.  
j) Amount of minimum subscription and the s teps that would be taken if minimum 
subscription is not received.  
k) Listing details and transferability.  
8.0 The disclosures regarding Securitised debt instruments  
8.1 The following disclosures shall be made regarding the securitised debt instruments 
offered:  
(a) An indication as to, where potential material liquidity shortfalls may occur, the availability 
and details of any liquidity support and plans to cover potential shortfalls. (b) Information 
regarding possible accumulation of surpluses in the issuer and an indication of the investment 
criteria for the investment of any liquidity surpluses.  
(c) Details of any other arrangements upon which payments of interest and principal to 
investors are dependent.  
                                                                                                                                                        
122 Renumbered as “m)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts ) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f July 06, 2026. Prior to its 
renumbering it was read as “l)” 
123 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 202 5 w.e.f May 05, 2025. Prior to omission, the clause read 
as under:  
“(h) Option of the applicants to choose between allotment in the physical and dematerialised form.”

[Page 53]
8.2 The tax treatment of the various transactions at the  hands of the investor, special purpose 
distinct entity and originator shall be disclosed.  
9.0 Disclosures about the Issuer  
a) A brief description of the issuer along with its history ;  
b) A statement whether the issuer has been established as a special purpose vehicle or entity.  
c) Details of the settlor, initial corpus, place of registration, if any, along with any 
identification number.  
d) To the extent known to the issuer, state the name of the person(s) who directly or indirectly 
controls the issuer, along wi th the nature of such control and the measures in place to 
ensure that such control is not abused.  
e) The person(s) holding residual beneficial interest in the trust.  
f) Financial Information concerning the Issuer’s assets and liabilities, financial position, and 
profits and losses, if any.  
g) Names, address, nationality, professional experience, other directorships and academic 
qualifications of the trustees.  
h) Management of the issuer.  
10.0 Disclosures about the Trustees  
1. Name of the trustee, organizational form, management.  
2. Experience.  
3. Duties & responsibilities of the trustee under the trust deed.  
4. Principal powers of the trustees.  
5. Procedure for appointment, removal and replacement of trustees 6. Other material terms of 
the trust deed.  
11.0 Disclosures about the Originator  
1. Name, description, principal business activities and brief history of operation of the 
originator.  
2. Principal business segments in which the originator operates.  
3. Description of the originator’s business, market presence, market share, if any, experience 
etc. in relation to the asset class proposed to be securitized.  
4. Financial Information concerning the originator’s assets and liabilities, financial position, 
and profits and losses, for the purpose of which the originator shall provide a complete 
audited financial statements for past 3 years and, if necessary, unaudited financial 
statements prepared within 120 days from the date of the application for  registration of the 
asset backed securities is made effective.  
5. Overview of the process of origination of the asset being securitised. 6. Major underwriting 
practices concerning the asset being securitised.  
12.0 Disclosures about the Servicer  
1. Name of the Servicer, organizational form and its principal activities.  
2. Experience.  
3. Financial Information: The servicer should possess the financial resources necessary to 
perform under the servicing agreement and/or trust agreement.  
4. Disclosure about defaults  124[in connection with servicing obligations undertaken in the 
past in preceding three years and the current financial year,] if any.  
5. Material terms of the servicing agreement and the servicer’s duties, with the servicing 
agreement filed as an exhibit.  
                                                 
124 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitis ed Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 54]
6. Servicing fees.  
7. Events of default of the servicer and consequences thereof. 8. Replacement of the servicer, 
particulars about whether any backup servicer exists.  
13.0 Disclosures about the Transaction Structure & Cash Flow  
1. Description of the structure o f the transaction, including, if necessary, a structure 
diagram.  
2. Description of the entities participating in the issue and description of the functions, risks 
associated to be performed by them.  
3. Excess spread and the treatment thereof.  
4. Credit enhancement and liquidity support.  
5. Credit collateral, over -collateralisation, guarantees or any other support from the 
originator or any third party, particulars of such credit enhancer, fees, if any, payable to 
such enhancer and particulars of any provision requi ring the replacement of such 
enhancer in any contingency.  
6. Important structural triggers in the transaction such early amortisation, redirection of the 
cash flows to a particular class(es) of the securities, trapping of the excess spread, etc.  
7. Cash reserve, if any, including the reinvestment of the same and eligible securities/modes 
of investment where the same may be invested.  
8. Reinvestment of cash flows, if any, and the modes where the same may be reinvested.  
9. Any material contracts with the originator o r third parties such as swaps, put or call 
options including any such options in respect of the securitised debt instruments.  
10. Clean up call option, if any.  
11. Priority of distributions and allocation of funds. An illustrative schedule of priority is 
given below:  
• Servicing Fee, Trustee Fee etc.  
• Class A Securities Interest  
• First allocation of principal  
• Class B interest  
• Second allocation of principal  
• Reinstatement of reserve account, if any • Early amortisation events, trigger clauses etc.  
• Events of default and events entailing change in priority of distributions  
12. Description of the method and date of the sale, transfer or assignment of the assets or 
of any rights and/or obligations in the assets to the issuer or, where applicable, the manne r 
and time period in which the proceeds from the issue will be fully invested by the issuer.  
13. Material features of the asset pool such as default rate, loss rate, recovery rate, 
delinquency rate (by buckets such as 30 dpd; 60 dpd; 90 dpd, etc), prepayment rate, etc.  
14. Sensitivity of the cash flows and yields on different classes to the changes in the 
above assumptions, including expected maturity.  
15. Major representations and warranties contained in the document whereby the debt or 
receivables have been assigned. 16. Any other particulars as are necessary to understand the 
transaction structure.  
14.0 The Underlying Assets  
In any such information as b elow, where an average information is being given, the 
minimum, maximum and the standard deviation must also be disclosed:  
(a) the legal jurisdiction(s) where the assets are located;  
(b) the nature of and title of the assets;  
(c) the expiry or maturity date(s) of the assets;  
(d) the rate of return from the assets;

[Page 55]
(e) the criteria for the selection of the assets;  
(f) the number and value of the assets in the pool;  
(g) the method of origination or creation of the assets;  
(h) rights of recourse against the originator to the extent a llowed in law, including a list of 
material representations and warranties given to the issuer relating to the assets;  
(i) rights to substitute the assets and the qualifying criteria;  
(j) any prepayment right including prepayment penalties available to the obligors;  
(k) level of concentration of the obligors in the asset pool, identifying obligors that account 
for ten per cent or more of the asset value;  
(l) where there is no concentration of obligors above ten per cent, the general characteristics 
and descriptions of the obligors;  
(m) the outstanding principal balance/anticipated collections over a definite period from 
the eligible assets;  
(n) the outstanding principal balance/anticipated collections over a definite period from the 
eligible assets as a percentage of the total amount of asset-backed securities being offered; 
(o) the cash generated by the eligible assets in the last financial year as a percentage of the 
total amount of securitised debt instruments being offered;  
(p) the amount of eligible assets in default;  
(q) the amount of eligible assets in default as a percentage of the total amount of securitised 
debt instruments being offered and the amount of eligible assets in default as a percentage 
of the credit enhancement;  
(r) explanatory notes where there is expected material difference between actual and  
projected cash flows and any actions being taken to correct the situation;  
(s) a description of what constitutes a default;  
(t) a chartered accountant’s report on the cash flow projections arising from the eligible 
assets which are the basis of the securitisation together with the basis of the projection.  
15.0 Static Pool Information  
The following information shall be provided for static pools of similar assets of all past 
securitisation transactions done with reference to the same originator:  
1. Information regarding delinquencies, cumulative losses and prepayments information 
for the past 5 years of the originator’s portfolio, including the build up of such delinquencies, 
losses and prepayments over time.  
2. It should include the factors relevant to the transaction such as asset term, asset type, 
yield, payment rates, the erosion of credit enhancements, any allocation of losses to any class 
of investors, etc.  
16.0 Outstanding litigations and material developments  125[in relation  to the originator or 
servicer or any other party to the transaction which could be prejudicial to the interests of the 
investors].  
17.0 Other regulatory and Statutory Disclosures.  
18.0 Fees & expenses Any fees paid to trustee, servicer etc. and the tax 
paid should be disclosed.  
19.0 Declarations.  
(1) The offer document shall contain the following declaration by trustees of the special 
purpose distinct entity at the end:-  
                                                 
125 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 56]
“We …………………………………………………….. being the trustees of the issuer 
namely: ………………………………. accept responsibility for the information contained in 
this offer document. To the best of our knowledge and belief and we have taken all 
reasonable care to ensure that the information contained in this document is in accordance 
with facts which are true , fa ir and adequate and does not omit anything likely to affect the 
import of such information.  
In our opinion, the issuer does not have any debts, liabilities or other claims which may 
increase the likelihood of the issuer being subjected to dissolution, voluntary or compulsory 
winding up or insolvency proceedings.  
In our opinion, the expected cash flow from the asset pool is sufficient to meet the obligations 
on the securitised debt instruments.”  
(2) The offer document shall also contain a declaration made by the directors 126[(in case 
of public issues), or authorised signatory (ies ) (in case of privately placed securitised debt 
instruments)]of the originator in the following terms:-  
“We …………………………………………………….. being the directors 127[{or authorised 
signatory (ies)] of the originator namely: ………………………………. accept responsibility 
for the  information contained in this offer document. To the best of our knowledge and belief 
and we have taken all reasonable care to ensure that the information contained in this 
document is in accordance with facts which are true, fair and adequate and does no t omit 
anything likely to affect the import of such information.  
In our opinion, the originator is a going concern.  
In our opinion, the expected cash flow from the asset pool is sufficient to meet the obligations 
on the securitised debt instruments.” 20.0 Undertakings.  
(1) The following undertakings shall be made by all trustees of the special purpose distinct 
entity, -  
(a) that in the event minimum subscription is not received, the special purpose distinct 
entity shall forthwith refund the application moneys collected under the offer and in the event 
of delay beyond eight days from closure of the offer in making such refund, the special 
purpose distinct entity and its directors or trustees shall be liable jointly and severally to 
repay the application moneys together with interest at fifteen per cent per annum;  
(b) that in the event of over-subscription, the excess application moneys shall be refunded 
forthwith to unsuccessful and partially successful applicants and in the event of delay beyond 
eight days from finalisation of the basis of allotment in making such refund, the special 
purpose distinct entity and its directors or trustees shall be liable jointly and severally to 
repay the application moneys together with interest at fifteen per cent per annum;  
(c) that in the event any stock exchange to which an application for listing is made under 
subsection (2) of section 17A of the Act rejects listing permission, the issuer and, if 
necessary, its directors or trustees, shall refund application moneys forthwith in t erms of sub-
section (3) thereof.  
21.0 Material documents.  
(1) The following documents and any other document referred to in the offer document as a 
‘material document’ shall be made available for inspection to prospective investors during the 
offer period at the registered office of the issuer or at office of the merchant banker:-  
(a) the constitutional documents of the issuer;  
                                                 
126 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.  
127 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of Ind ia (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 57]
(b) copies of agreement between the issuer and the servicer, credit enhancer, and liquidity 
provider where relevant;  
(c) copies of agreement with credit enhancer;  
(d) documents of assignment of the assets under the securitisation transaction;  
(e) copies of agreements with underwriters,  
(f) the originator’s board resolutions, shareholders resolution, if applicable, and approval by 
existing debt holders, where applicable;  
(g) all reports, letters and other documents, valuations and statements by any expert any part 
of which is included or referred to in the offer document;  
(h) the audited accounts of the originator or, where it has subsidiaries, the consolida ted 
audited accounts of the originator and its subsidiaries for each of the five financial years 
preceding the publication of the offer document, including, all notes, reports or 
information required by the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) to be annexed or attached 
thereto.  
(2) Detailed disclosures shall be given as to the manner in which the above documents 
may be inspected.  
(3) Where any of the above documents are not in English, translations into English must 
also be available for inspection. 
 
128[SCHEDULE 129[VI] 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008 
(See regulation 38E) 
DISCLOSURES TO BE MADE IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT 
 
The offer document shall contain all material information which shall be true and 
adequate so as to enable the investors to make informed decision on the investment in the 
issue. 
 
The disclosures shall be part of the objects of the issue in the offer document  and shall 
include: 
 
A. Details of non-performing loans acquired by the issuer/ asset reconstruction company 
from various banks. Such details shall, inter-alia, include the following: 
(i) date of NPA classification;  
(ii) details of assets; 
(iii) facility-wise limits sanctioned; 
(iv) nature of charge on the underlying assets i.e. 1st charge, 2nd charge, exclusive 
charge etc.;  
(v) share in total debt;  
(vi) details of guarantor(s), if any;  
(vii) details of custody of original title deeds; 
(viii) litigation, if any;  
(ix) willful defaulters, if any;  
(x) any valuation of collateral providing full details thereof;  
                                                 
128 Inserted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
129  Renumbered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 58]
(xi) inspection report of collateral, if any; 
(xii) material findings in the due diligence report of Asset Reconstruction Company;  
(xiii) resolution plan formulated by Asset Reconstruction Company, if any; 
 
B. Details of percentage holding of non-performing loans across other banks.”] 
 
 
130[SCHEDULE VII 
FORMAT OF ADVERTISEMENTS FOR PUBLIC ISSUES OF 
SECURITISED DEBT INSTRUMENTS 
[See Regulation 36A] 
This is an advertisement for information purposes 
_________ _________  
 
Address: _____________________ Tel: _______________  
E-mail: _____________ Website: _____________________________ 
 
THE ISSUE 
Public issue of ___________ securitised debt instrument of Rs. ____ each at a 
price of Rs._____ (Summary Details of Coupon, Dividen d, Redemption, etc. shall 
be disclosed) 
PROMOTERS 
XXXX 
PROPOSED LISTING 
Names of Stock Exchanges 
 
LEAD MANAGERS 
(Names) 
 
COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF THE ISSUER 
Name, address, telephone numbers, email ID, website address 
 
CREDIT RATING (The rating obtained shall be disclosed prominently along with 
the meaning of the same) 
 
TRUSTEES 
                                                 
130 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue an d Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f May 05, 2025.

[Page 59]
(Names) 
AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS 
Names of Issuer, Lead Managers, etc. (Addresses optional) 
 
AVAILABILITY OF OFFER DOCUMENT 
Investors are advised to refer the offer document, an d the risk factors contained 
therein, before applying in the issue. Full copy of the offer document is available 
on websites of issuer / lead manager(s) / Stock Exchange(s) on www.__________ 
 
ISSUE OPENS ON: 
ISSUE CLOSES ON: 
 
Issued by 
Trustees of [name of special purpose distinct entity]] 
 
 
  
 
C.B.BHAVE  
CHAIRMAN  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

[Page 60]
Note: 
 
1. The SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised  Debt Instruments) Regulations, 
2008 were published in the Gazette of India on 26th May, 2008 vide  No. 
LADNRO/GN/2008/12/126567. 
 
2. The SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 
2008 were subsequently amended on - 
 
a. April 09, 2015 by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  
Instruments) (Amendment)  Regulations,  2015  published  in  Official  
Gazette  vide  Notification  No.  SEBI-NRO/OIAE/GN/2015-16/001. 
   
b. June   26,   2018  by the   SEBI   (Public   Offer   and   Listing   of   Securitised   
Debt   Instruments) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 published in Official 
Gazette vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/26. 
 
c. October 09, 2018 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2018 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2018/43. 
 
d. August  18,  2023  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  
(Facilitation  of  Grievance Redressal   Mechanism)   (Amendment)   
Regulations,   2023   vide   notification   No.   SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/146. 
 
e. May 05, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/247. 
 
f. July 6, 2026 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing 
of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026 vide   notification   No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2026/304.
