[Page 1]
1 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS 
AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015 
 
     [Amended up to July 14, 2026] 
 
No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2015-16/013 In exercise of the powers conferred by section 11, 
sub-section (2) of section 11A and section 30 of  the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) read with section 31 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(42 of 1956), the Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following 
Regulations, namely:— 
 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
 
Short title and commencement. 
 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing  
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
 
 (2) They shall come into force on the ninetieth day from the date of their publication in the 
 Official Gazette: 
 Provided that the provisions of sub-regulation (4) of regulation 23 and regulation 31A 
shall come into force on the date of notification of these regulations.  
 
Definitions. 
 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:— 
(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
  
(b) “associate” shall mean any entity which is an associate under sub-section (6) of 
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 or under the applicable accounting 
standards:  
Provided that this definition shall not be applicable for the units issued by mutual 
fund which are listed on a recognised stock exchange(s) for which the provisions 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 
shall be applicable; 
 
(c) "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India establi shed under 
section 3 of the Act; 
 
(d) “board of directors” or “board of trustees” shall mean the b oard of directors or 
board of trustees, whichever applicable, of the listed entity; 
 
(e) “chief executive officer” or “m anaging director” or “manager” shall mean the 
person so appointed in terms of the Companies Act, 2013; 
 
(f) “chief financial officer” or “whole time finance director” or “head of finance”, 
by whatever name called, shall mean the person heading and discharging the 
finance function of the listed entity as disclosed by it to the recognised stock 
exchange(s) in its filing under these regulations;

[Page 2]
2 
 
 
(g) “committee” shall mean committee of board of directors or any other committee 
so constituted; 
 
(h) “designated securities” means specified securities, non -convertible debt 
securities, non -convertible redeemable preference shares, perpetual debt 
instrument, perpetual non -cumulative preference shares, Indian depository 
receipts, securitised debt instruments, [security receipts,]1 units issued by mutual 
funds, 2[Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments] and any other securities as may 
be specified by the Board ;  
 
(i) “financial year” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under sub-section 
(41) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
 
3[(ia) “fugitive economic offender” shall mean an individual who is declared a fugitive 
economic offender under section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 
2018 (17 of 2018);] 
 
(j) "global depository receipts” means global depository receipts as defined in sub -
section (44) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
 
(k) 4[***] 
 
(l) “half yearly results” means the financial results prepared in accordance with 
these regulations in respect of a half year;  
 
(m) "holding company" means a holding company as defined in sub -section (46) of 
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
 
(n) ‘Indian depository receipts’ means Indian depository receipts as defined in sub -
section(48) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
 
[(na) “Insolvency Code” means the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 [No. 31 
of 2016]]5 
 
(o) “key managerial personnel” means key managerial personnel as defined in sub -
section (51) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
 
                                                           
1 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 06.09.2018. 
2 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 25.7.2022. 
3 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 16.11.2018. 
4 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the clause read as under-  
“(k)“half year” means the period of six months commencing on the first day of April or October of a 
financial year;” 
5 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obliga tions and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 31.05.2018.

[Page 3]
3 
 
(p) "listed entity" means an entity which has listed, on a recognised stock 
exchange(s), the designated securities issued by it or designated securities issued 
under schemes managed by it, in accordance with the listing agreement entered  
into between the entity and the recognised stock exchange(s); 
 
(q) “listing agreement” shall mean an agreement that is entered into between a 
recognised stock exchange and an  entity, on the application of that entity to the 
recognised stock exchange, undertaking to comply with conditions for listing of 
designated securities; 
 
(r) “main board" means main board as defined in clause 6[(ee)] of sub-regulation (1) 
of regulation 7[2] of the 8[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018]; 
 
9[(ra) “mainstream media” shall include print or electronic mode of the following: 
i. Newspapers registered with the Registrar of Newspapers for India; 
ii. News channels permitted by Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
under Government of India; 
iii. Content published by the publisher of news and current affairs content as 
defined under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and 
Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021; and 
iv. Newspapers or news channels or news and current affairs content 
similarly registered  or permitted or regulated , as the case may be,  in 
jurisdictions outside India;] 
 
(s) “net worth” means net worth as defined in sub -section (57) of section 2 of the  
Companies Act, 2013; 
 
(t)  10[’non-convertible debt securities’ means ‘debt securities’ as defined under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non -Convertible 
Securities) Regulations, 2021;] 
 
(u) 11[‘non-convertible redeemable preference shares’, ‘‘non-convertible securities’, 
‘perpetual debt instrument’ and ‘perpetual non -cumulative preference share’ 
                                                           
6 Substituted for “(a)” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
7 Substituted for “106N” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
8 Substituted for “Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2009” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 
w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
9 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
10 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, clause (t) read as follows:  
“(t) ‘non-convertible debt securities’ which is ‘debt securities’ as defined under regulation 2(1)(e) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 ”. 
11 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, clause (u) read as follows:  
“(u)‘non-convertible redeemable preference shares’, ‘perpetual debt instrument’/'innovative perpetual 
debt instrument' and  ‘perpetual non -cumulative preference share’ shall have the same meaning as

[Page 4]
4 
 
shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non -Convertible Securities) Regulations, 
2021; 
 
(v) "offer document" shall have the same meaning assigned to it under clause 12[(kk)] 
of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the 13[Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018], 
14[clause (y) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non -Convertible Securities) regulations, 
2021], clause (r) of  regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 and clause (l) of sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 2 of the [Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Securitised Debt Instruments and Security  Receipts) Regulations, 2008] 15, as 
may be applicable; 
 
(w) "promoter" and "promoter group" shall have the same meaning as assigned to 
them respectively in clauses 16[(oo)] and 17[(pp)] of sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 2 of the 18[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018]. 
 
(x) "public" means public as defined under clause (d) of rule 2 of the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957; 
 
(y) "public shareholding" means public shareholding as defined under  clause (e) of 
rule 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957; 
 
(z) “quarter” means the period of three months commencing on the first day of April, 
July, October or January of a financial year;  
 
                                                           
assigned to them in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non -Convertible 
Redeemable Preference Shares) Regulations, 2013;”. 
12 Substituted for “(x)” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
13 Substituted for “Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
14 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Re gulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021, for the following:  
 “clause (j) of sub-regulation(1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008, clause (p) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non -Convertible Redeemable Preference 
Shares) Regulations, 2013”. 
15 Substituted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 06.09.2018. Prior to this, it read as “ Securities and Exchange Board of India (Public Offer and 
Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008”. 
16 Substituted for “(za)” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
17 Substituted for “(zb)” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Secon d Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
18 Substituted for “Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.

[Page 5]
5 
 
(za) "quarterly results" means the financial results prepared in accordance with these 
regulations in respect of a quarter;  
 
(zb) “related party” means a related party as defined under sub-section (76) of section 
2 of the Companies Act, 2013 or under the applicable accounting standards: 
 
19[Provided that:  
(a) any person or entity forming a part of the promoter or promoter group of 
the listed entity; or  
(b) any person or any entity, holding equity shares: 
(i) of twenty per cent or more; or 
(ii) of ten per cent or more, with effect from April 1, 2023; 
in the listed entity either directly or on a beneficial interest basis as provided 
under section 89 of the Companies Act, 2013, at any time, during the 
immediate preceding financial year; 
  
shall be deemed to be a related party:] 
 
Provided 20[further] that this definition shall not be applicable for the units 
issued by mutual funds which are listed on a recognised stock exchange(s); 
 
(zc) 21[“related party transaction” means a transaction involving a transfer of 
resources, services or obligations between:  
(i) a listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on one hand and a related party of the 
listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on the other hand; or  
(ii) a listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on one hand, and any other person or entity 
on the other hand, the purpose and effect of which is to benefit a related party of the 
listed entity or any of its subsidiaries, with effect from April 1, 2023;  
 
regardless of whether a price is charged and a “transaction” with a related party shall 
be construed to include a single transaction or a group of transactions in a contract: 
 
Provided that the following shall not be a related party transaction: 
(a) the issue of specified securities on a preferential basis, subject to compliance 
of the requirements under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;  
                                                           
19 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. Prior to the substitution, the provision was inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019 and read as under: 
“Provided that any person or entity belonging to the promoter or promoter group of the listed entity and holding 
20% or more of shareholding in the listed entity shall be deemed to be a related party.” 
20 Inserted by t he SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
21 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. Prior to the substitution, clause (zc) read as under: 
“(zc) related party transaction” means a transfer of resources, services or obligations between a listed entity 
and a related party, regardless of whether a price is charged and a "transaction" with a related party shall b e 
construed to include a single transaction or a group of transactions in a contract:  
Provided that this definition shall not be applicable for the units issued by mutual funds which are listed on 
a recognised stock exchange(s);”

[Page 6]
6 
 
(b) the following corporate actions 22[***] which are uniformly applicable/offered 
to all shareholders in proportion to their shareholding: 
i. payment of dividend;  
ii. subdivision or consolidation of securities; 
iii. issuance of securities by way of a rights issue or a bonus issue; and  
iv. buy-back of securities. 
(c) acceptance of fixed deposits by banks/Non -Banking Finance Companies at the 
terms uniformly applicable/offered to all shareholders/public, subject to disclosure 
of the same along with the disclosure of related party transactions every six months 
to the stock exchange(s), in the format as specified by the Board: 
23[(d) acceptance of current account deposits and saving account deposits by banks 
in compliance with the directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India or any other 
central bank in the relevant jurisdiction from time to time: 
Explanation: For the purpose of clauses (c) and (d) above, acceptance of deposits 
includes payment of interest thereon. 
(e) retail purchases from any listed entity or its subsidiary by 24[the directors or key 
managerial personnel of the listed entity or its subsidiary, and relatives  of such 
directors or key managerial personnel ], without establishing a business relationship 
and at the terms which are uniformly applicable/offered to all 25[employees, directors, 
key managerial personnel and relatives of directors or key managerial personnel]:] 
 
Provided further that this definition shall not be applicable for the units issued by 
mutual funds which are listed on a recognised stock exchange(s);] 
 
 (zd) “relative” means relative as defined under sub-section (77) of section 2 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and rules prescribed there under:  
 
Provided this definition shall not be applicable for the units issued by mutual fund 
which are listed on a recognised stock exchange(s);  
 
(ze) "schedule" means a schedule annexed to these regulations; 
 
26[(zf) “securities laws” means the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 
1956, the Depositories Act, 1996 and the rules and regulations made thereunder and 
the general or special orders, guidelines or circulars made or issued by the Board 
thereunder and the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 or any previous company 
law and any subordinate legislation framed thereunder, which  are administered by 
the Board;] 
                                                           
22 The words “by the listed entity” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
23 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
24 Substituted for the words “ its directors or its employees ” by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) R egulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.12.2025. 
25 Substituted for the words “ employees and directors ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Lis ting 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.12.2025.  
26 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as under-  
“(zf) "securities laws" means the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories 
Act, 1996, and the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and Companies Act, 2013, and the rules, 
regulations, circulars or guidelines made thereunder.”

[Page 7]
7 
 
 
[(zg) “securitized debt instruments” shall have the meaning assigned to it under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 
Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008;]27 
 
[(zga) “security receipts” shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and 
Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008;]28 
 
(zh) “servicer” means servicer as defined under clause(t) of sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 2 of the [ Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of 
Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008;]29 
 
(zi) "small and medium enterprises" or "SME" shall mean an entity which has issued 
specified securities in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 30[IX] of the 
31[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018]; 
 
(zj) “SME Exchange” means an SME exchange as defined under clause 32[(ddd)] of 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 33[2] of the 34[Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018] ; 
 
(zk) "stock exchange" means a recognised stock exchange as defined under clause 
(f) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956; 
 
(zl) ‘specified securities’ means ‘equity shares’ and ‘convertible securities’ as 
defined under clause 35[(eee)] of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the  
                                                           
27 Substituted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Di sclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 06.09.2018. Prior to this, it read as “[(zg) ‘securitised debt instruments’ as defined in the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instrument s) Regulations, 2008”. 
28 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 06.09.2018. 
29 Substituted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 06.09.2018. Prior to this, it read as “ Securities and Exchange Board of India (Public Offer and 
Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008” 
30 Substituted for “XB” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Se cond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
31 Substituted for “Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
32 Substituted for “(c)” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
33 Substituted for “(106N)” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requir ements) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
34 Substituted for “Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
35 Substituted for “(zj)” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.

[Page 8]
8 
 
36[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018];  
 
37[(zla) “SR equity shares” means the equity shares of a listed entity having superior 
voting rights compared to all other equity shares issued by that listed entity;] 
 
(zm) “subsidiary” means a subsidiary as defined under sub -section(87) of section 2 
of the Companies Act, 2013; 
 
38[(zn) “working days” means working days of the stock exchange where the 
securities of the entity are listed;] 
 
39[(zo) the expressions “For Profit Social Enterprise”, “Not for Profit Organization”, 
“Social Enterprise”, “Social Stock Exchange”, “draft fund raising document”, “final 
fund raising document”, “fund raising document”, “Social Auditor” and “Social 
Audit Firm” shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the Securities and 
Exchange Board of In dia (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulation, 2018.] 
 
(2) All other words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations, but defined in 
the Act or the Companies Act, 2013, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the 
Depositories Act, 1996 and/or the rules and regulations made thereunder shall have the 
same meaning as respectively assigned to them in such Acts or rules or regulations or any 
statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be. 
 
Applicability of the regulations. 
3. 40[(1)] Unless otherwise provided, these regulations shall apply to 41[a] listed entity 
42[which] has listed any of the following  designated securities on recognised stock 
exchange(s):  
(a) specified securities listed on main board or SME Exchange or 43[Innovators Growth 
Platform]; 
(b) 44[non-convertible securities;] 
                                                           
36 Substituted for “Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of C apital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
37 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Dis closure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
38 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
39 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 25.7.2022. 
40 Numbered as sub -regulation (1) by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
41 Substituted for “the” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
42 Substituted for “who” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
43 Substituted for “Institutional Trading Platform” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
44 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, clause (b) read as follows:  
“(b) non-convertible debt securities, non -convertible redeemable preference shares, perpetual debt 
instrument, perpetual non-cumulative preference shares;”.

[Page 9]
9 
 
(c) Indian depository receipts; 
(d) securitised debt instruments; 
45[(da) security receipts;] 
(e) units issued by mutual funds; 
(f) any other securities as may be specified by the Board.  
 
46[(2) The applicability of the provisions of these regulations to a listed entity on the basis of 
market capitalisation shall be determined as follows: 
(a) Every recognized stock exchange shall, at the end of the calendar year i.e., 31st December, 
prepare a list of entities that have listed their specified securities ranking such  entities on the 
basis of their average market capitalisation from 1st July to 31st December  of that calendar 
year.47 
(b) The relevant provisions shall then become applicable to a listed entity that is required to  
comply with such requirements for the first time (or, if applicable, required to comply after  
any interim period) after a period of three months from December 31 (i.e. April 1) or from the 
beginning of the immediate next financial year, whichever is later: 
Provided that the listed entity, which is required to comply for the first time or after a  period 
of cessation, shall put in place systems and processes for compliance with clause (f) of sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 34 within a period of three months from December 31  (i.e. on or 
before April 1) or from the beginning of the immediate next financial year, whichever is later, 
and further disclose the Business Responsibility and Sus tainability Report and/or 
48[assessment or assurance of the specified parameters] as per the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report Core in the Annual Report prepared for the financial year in w hich 
systems and processes were required to be put in place in accordance with this proviso. 
(c) The listed entity shall continue to comply with relevant provisions that were applicable to 
it based on the market capitalisation of previous year and continue(s) to remain applicable on 
the basis of its rank in the list prepared by recognized stock exchanges as per clause (a) of this 
sub-regulation.] 
49[(2A) The provisions of these regulations, which become applicable to a listed entity on the 
basis of criteria of market capitalisation, shall continue to apply t o such an entity unless its 
ranking changes in the list prepared in accordance with sub -regulation (2) of this regulation 
and such change results in the listed entity remaining outside the applicable threshold for a 
period of three consecutive years. 
                                                           
45 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 06.09.2018. 
46 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as follows- 
“(2) The provisions of these regulations which become applicable to listed entities on the basis of 
market capitalisation criteria shall contin ue to apply to such entities even if they fall below such 
thresholds.” 
47 The first list in accordance with this clause shall be prepared by the recognized stock exchange(s) as on 
December 31, 2024. 
48 Substituted for the word “assurance” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025. 
49 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024.

[Page 10]
10 
 
(2B) For such listed entities which remain outside the applicable threshold for a period of 
three consecutive years in terms of sub-regulation (2A) of this regulation, the provisions that 
apply on the basis of criteria of market capitalisation shall cease to ap ply at the end of the 
financial year following the 31st December of the third consecutive year: 
Provided that for those listed entities that follow January to December as its financial year, 
the provisions shall cease to apply at the end of three months from 31st December of the third 
consecutive year (i.e. on 31st March).] 
50[(3) The provisions of these regulations which become applicable to listed entities on the 
basis of the criterion of the value of outstanding listed debt securities shall continue to apply 
to such entities even if they fall below such thresholds as mentioned in sub-regulation (1A) of 
regulation 15.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
50 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021.

[Page 11]
11 
 
CHAPTER II 
PRINCIPLES GOVERNING DISCLOSURES AND OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED 
ENTITY 
 
Principles governing disclosures and obligations. 
4. (1) The listed entity which has listed securities shall make disclosures and abide by its 
obligations under these regulations, in accordance with the following principles: 
 
(a) Information shall be prepared and disclosed in accordance with applicable 
standards of accounting and financial disclosure. 
 
(b) The listed entity shall implement the prescribed accounting standards in letter and  
spirit in the preparation of financial statements taking into consideration the interest 
of all stakeholders and shall also ensure that the annual audit is conducted by an 
independent, competent and qualified auditor. 
 
(c) The listed entity shall refrain from misrepresentation and ensure that the 
information provided  to recognised stock exchange(s) and investors is not 
misleading. 
 
(d) The listed entity shall provide adequate and timely information to recognised stock 
exchange(s) and investors. 
 
(e) The listed entity shall ensure that disseminations made under provisions of t hese 
regulations and circulars made thereunder, are adequate, accurate, explicit, timely 
and presented in a simple language. 
 
(f) Channels for disseminating information shall provide for equal, timely and cost 
efficient access to relevant information by investors. 
 
(g) The listed entity shall abide by all the provisions of the applicable laws including 
the securities laws and also such other guidelines as may be issued from time to 
time by the Board and the recognised stock exchange(s) in this regard and as may 
be applicable. 
 
(h) The listed entity shall make the specified disclosures and follow its obligations in 
letter and spirit taking into consideration the interest of all stakeholders.  
 
(i) Filings, reports, statements, documents and information which are event based or 
are filed periodically shall contain relevant information.  
 
(j) Periodic filings, reports, statements, documents and information reports shall 
contain information that shall enable investors to track the performance of a listed 
entity over regular interval s of time and shall provide sufficient information to 
enable investors to assess the current status of a listed entity. 
  
(2) The listed entity which has listed its specified securities shall comply with the corporate 
governance provisions as specified in chapter IV which shall be implemented in a manner 
so as to achieve the objectives of the principles as mentioned below.

[Page 12]
12 
 
(a) The rights of shareholders: The listed entity shall seek to protect and facilitate the 
exercise of the following rights of shareholders: 
 
(i) right to participate in, and to be sufficiently informed of, decisions concerning 
fundamental corporate changes. 
(ii) opportunity to participate effectively and vote in general shareholder meetings. 
(iii)being informed of the rules, including voting p rocedures that govern general 
shareholder meetings. 
(iv) opportunity to ask questions to the board of directors, to place items on the 
agenda of general meetings, and to propose resolutions, subject to reasonable 
limitations. 
(v) Effective shareholder participation  in key corporate governance decisions, 
such as the nomination and election of members of board of directors. 
(vi) exercise of ownership rights by all shareholders, including institutional 
investors. 
(vii) adequate mechanism to address the grievances of the shareholders. 
(viii) protection of minority shareholders from abusive actions by, or in the interest 
of, controlling shareholders acting either directly or indirectly, and effective 
means of redress. 
 
(b) Timely information: The listed entity shall provide adequate and timely information 
to shareholders, including but not limited to the following: 
 
(i) sufficient and timely information concerning the date, location and agenda of 
general meetings, as well as full and timely information regarding the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting. 
(ii) Capital structures and arrangements that enable certain shareholders to obtain 
a degree of control disproportionate to their equity ownership. 
(iii)rights attached to all series  and classes of shares, which shall be disclosed to 
investors before they acquire shares. 
 
(c) Equitable treatment : The listed entity shall ensure equitable treatment of all 
shareholders, including minority and foreign shareholders, in the following manner: 
 
(i) All shareholders of the same series of a class shall be treated equally. 
(ii) Effective shareholder participation in key corporate governance decisions, 
such as the nomination and election of members of board of directors, shall be 
facilitated. 
(iii)Exercise of voting rights by foreign shareholders shall be facilitated. 
(iv) The listed entity shall devise a framework to avoid insider trading and abusive 
self-dealing. 
(v) Processes and procedures for general shareholder meetings shall allow for 
equitable treatment of all shareholders. 
(vi) Procedures of listed entity shall not make it unduly difficult or expensive to 
cast votes. 
 
(d) Role of stakeholders in corporate governance: The listed entity shall recognise the 
rights of its stakeholders and encourage co -operation between liste d entity and the 
stakeholders, in the following manner:

[Page 13]
13 
 
(i) The listed entity shall respect the rights of stakeholders that are established by 
law or through mutual agreements. 
(ii) Stakeholders shall have the opportunity to obtain effective redress for 
violation of their rights. 
(iii)Stakeholders shall have access to relevant, sufficient and reliable information 
on a timely and regular basis to enable them to participate in corporate 
governance process. 
(iv) The listed entity shall devise an effective 51[vigil mechanism/] whistle blower 
52[policy] enabling stakeholders, including individual employees and their 
representative bodies, to freely  communicate their concerns about illegal or 
unethical practices. 
 
(e) Disclosure and transparency : The listed entity shall ensure timely and  accurate 
disclosure on all material matters including the financial situation, performance, 
ownership, and governance of the listed entity, in the following manner: 
(i) Information shall be prepared and disclosed in accordance with the prescribed 
standards of accounting, financial and non-financial disclosure. 
(ii) Channels for disseminating information shall provide for equal, timely and cost 
efficient access to relevant information by users. 
(iii) Minutes of the meeting shall be maintained explicitly recording dissenting opinions, 
if any. 
. 
 
(f) Responsibilities of the board of directors: The board of directors of the listed entity 
shall have the following responsibilities:  
(i) Disclosure of information: 
(1) Members of board of directors and key managerial personnel shall 
disclose to the board of directors whether they, directly, indirectly, or on 
behalf of third parties, have a material interest in any transaction or matter 
directly affecting the listed entity. 
(2) The board of directors and senior management shall conduct themselves 
so as to meet the expectations of operational transparency to stakeholders 
while at the same time maintaining confidentiality of information in order 
to foster a culture of good decision-making. 
 
(ii) Key functions of the board of directors-  
(1) Reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, major plans of action, risk 
policy, annual budgets and business plans, setting performance 
objectives, monitoring implementation and corporate performance, and  
overseeing major capital expenditures, acquisitions and divestments. 
(2) Monitoring the effectiveness of the listed entity’s governance practices 
and making changes as needed. 
(3) Selecting, compensating, monitoring and, when necessary, replacing key 
managerial personnel and overseeing succession planning. 
                                                           
51 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
52 Substituted for “mechanism” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.

[Page 14]
14 
 
(4) Aligning key managerial personnel and remuneration of board of 
directors with the longer term interests of the listed entity and its 
shareholders. 
(5) Ensuring a transparent nomination process to the board of direct ors with 
the diversity of thought, experience, knowledge, perspective and gender 
in the board of directors. 
(6) Monitoring and managing potential conflicts of interest of management, 
members of the board of directors and shareholders, including misuse of 
corporate assets and abuse in related party transactions. 
(7) Ensuring the integrity of the listed entity ’s accounting and financial 
reporting systems, including the independent audit, and that appropriate 
systems of control are in place, in particular, system s for risk 
management, financial and operational control, and compliance with the 
law and relevant standards. 
(8) Overseeing the process of disclosure and communications. 
(9) Monitoring and reviewing board of director’s evaluation framework. 
 
(iii) Other responsibilities: 
(1) The board of directors shall provide strategic guidance to the listed entity, 
ensure effective monitoring of the management and shall be accountable 
to the listed entity and the shareholders. 
(2) The board of directors shall set a corporate culture and the values by which 
executives throughout a group shall behave. 
(3) Members of the board of directors shall act on a fully informed basis, in 
good faith, with due diligence and care, and in the best interest of the listed 
entity and the shareholders. 
(4) The board of  directors shall encourage continuing directors training to 
ensure that the members of board of directors are kept up to date.  
(5) Where decisions of the board of directors may affect different shareholder 
groups differently, the board of directors shall treat all shareholders fairly. 
(6) The board of directors shall maintain high ethical standards and shall take 
into account the interests of stakeholders. 
(7) The board of directors shall exercise objective independent judgement on 
corporate affairs. 
(8) The board of directors shall consider assigning a sufficient number of non-
executive members of the board of directors capable of exercising 
independent judgement to tasks where there is a potential for conflict of 
interest. 
(9) The board of directors shall ensure that, while rightly encouraging positive 
thinking, these do not result in over -optimism that either leads to 
significant risks not being recognised or exposes the listed entity  to 
excessive risk. 
(10) The board of directors shall have ability to ‘step back’ to assist execu tive 
management by challenging the assumptions underlying: strategy, 
strategic initiatives (such as acquisitions), risk appetite, exposures and the 
key areas of the listed entity’s focus. 
(11) When committees of the board of directors are established, their mandate, 
composition and working procedures shall be well defined and disclosed 
by the board of directors.

[Page 15]
15 
 
(12)  Members of the board of directors shall be able to commit themselves 
effectively to their responsibilities. 
(13) In order to fulfil their responsibilitie s, members of the board of directors 
shall have access to accurate, relevant and timely information. 
(14) The board of directors and senior management shall facilitate the 
independent directors to perform their role effectively as a member of the 
board of directors and also a member of a committee of board of directors. 
 
(3) In case of any ambiguity or incongruity between the principles and relevant regulations, 
the principles specified in this Chapter shall prevail.

[Page 16]
16 
 
CHAPTER III 
 
COMMON OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITIES 
 
General obligation of compliance.  
 
5. The listed entity shall ensure that key managerial personnel, directors, promoters or any 
other person dealing with the listed entity, complies with responsibilities or obligations, if any, 
assigned to them under these regulations 53[:]  
 
 54[Provided that the key managerial personnel, directors, promoter, promoter group or any 
other person dealing with the listed entity shall disclose to the listed entity all information that 
is relevant and necessary for the listed entity to ensure compliance with the applicable laws.] 
 
Compliance Officer and his 55[/her] Obligations. 
6. (1) A listed entity shall appoint a qualified company secretary as the compliance officer56[:] 
 
 57[Provided that the Compliance Officer shall be an officer, who is in whole time 
employment of the listed entity, not more than one level below the board of directors and shall 
be designated as a Key Managerial Personnel.] 
 
58[(1A) Any vacancy in the office of the Compliance Officer shall be filled by the listed entity 
at the earliest and in any case not later than three months from the date of such vacancy: 
 
Provided that the listed entity shall not fill such vacancy by appointing a person in interim 
capacity, unless such appointment is made in accordance with the laws applicable in case of a 
fresh appointment to such office and the obligations under such laws are made applicable to 
such person.] 
 
59[(1B) Any vacancy in the office of the Compliance Officer of such listed entity in respect of 
which a resolution plan under section 31 of the Insolvency Code has been approved, shall be 
filled within a period of three months of such approval: 
 
 Provided that, in the interim, such listed entity shall have not less than one full -time key 
managerial personnel managing its day-to-day affairs.] 
 
(2) The compliance officer of the listed entity shall be responsible for- 
                                                           
53 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
54 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
55 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
56 Substituted for the s ymbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
57 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Re quirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
58 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
59 Inserted by the Securitie s and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 17]
17 
 
 
(a) ensuring conformity with the regulatory provisions applicable to the listed entity in 
letter and spirit.  
 
(b) co-ordination with and reporting to  the Board, recognised stock exchange(s) and  
depositories with respect to compliance with rules, regulations and other directives 
of these authorities in manner as specified from time to time. 
 
(c) ensuring that the correct procedures have been followed that w ould result in the 
correctness, authenticity and comprehensiveness of the information, statements and 
reports filed by the listed entity under these regulations.  
 
(d) monitoring email address of grievance redressal division as designated by the listed 
entity for the purpose of registering complaints by investors: 
 
Provided that the requirements of this regulation shall not be applicable in the case of units 
issued by mutual funds which are listed on recognised stock exchange(s) but shall be 
governed by the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) 
Regulations, 1996.  
  
60[Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent]. 
7.  (1) The listed entity shall appoint a 61[registrar to an issue and share transfer agent ] or 
manage the share transfer facility in-house:  
 
Provided that, in the case of in-house share transfer facility, as and when the total number of 
holders of securities of the listed entity exceeds one lakh, the listed entity shall either register 
with the Board as a 62[Registrar to an issue and share transfer agent]  or appoint Registrar to 
an issue and share transfer agent registered with the Board. 
 
(2) The listed entity shall ensure that all activities in relation to 63[***]share transfer facility 
are maintained either in house or by Registrar to an issue and share transfer agent registered 
with the Board. 
 
(3) 64[***]  
 
                                                           
60 Substituted for “Share Transfer Agent” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 16.12.2025. 
61 ibid. 
62 Substituted for “Category II share transfer agent ” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 16.12.2025. 
63 The words “both physical and electronic” omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 08.06.2018.  
64 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as 
under- 
“(3) The listed entity shall submit a compliance certificate to the exchange, duly signed by both the 
compliance officer of the listed entity and the authorised r epresentative of the share transfer agent, 
wherever applicable, within  [thirty days from the] end of  [***] the financial year, certifying 
compliance with the requirements of sub- regulation (2).”

[Page 18]
18 
 
(4) In case of any change or appointment of a new 65[registrar to an issue and share transfer 
agent], the listed entity shall enter into a tripartite agreement between the existing 66[registrar 
to an issue and share transfer agent], the new 67[registrar to an issue and share transfer agent] 
and the listed entity, in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time:  
 
Provided that in case the existing share transfer facility is managed in -house, the agreement 
referred above shall be entered into between the listed entity and the new 68[registrar to an 
issue and share transfer agent].  
 
(5) The listed entity shall intimate such appointment, referred to in sub -regulation (4), to the 
stock exchange(s) within seven days of entering into the agreement.  
 
(6) The agreement referred to in sub-regulation (4) shall be placed in the subsequent meeting 
of the board of directors: 
 
Provided that the requirements of this regulation shall not be applicable to the units issued by 
mutual funds that are listed on recognised stock exchange(s). 
 
Co-operation with intermediaries registered with the Board.  
8.  The listed entity, wherever applicable, shall co -operate with and submit correct and 
adequate information to the intermediaries registered with the Board such as credit 
rating agencies, registrar to an issue and share transfer agents, debenture trustees e tc, 
within timelines and procedures specified under the Act, regulations and circulars 
issued there under: 
 
Provided that requirements of this regulation shall not be applicable to the units issued by 
mutual funds listed on a recognised stock exchange(s) f or which the provisions of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 shall be applicable.  
 
Preservation of documents. 
9. The listed entity shall have a policy for preservation of  documents, approved by its board 
of directors, classifying them in at least two categories as follows- 
(a)  documents whose preservation shall be permanent in nature ; 
(b)  documents with preservation period of not less than eight years after completion of  
the relevant transactions:  
Provided that the listed entity may keep documents specified in clauses (a) and (b) in 
electronic mode. 
 
 
Filing of information.  
10. (1) The listed entity shall file the reports, statements, documents, filings and any other 
information with the recognised stock exchange(s) on the electronic platform  as 
specified by the Board or the recognised stock exchange(s).  
 
                                                           
65 Substituted for “share transfer agent ” by the SEBI (List ing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 16.12.2025. 
66 ibid. 
67 ibid. 
68 ibid.

[Page 19]
19 
 
69[(1A) The Board may enable integrated filin g of periodic reports, statements, 
documents and any other information required to be filed by a listed entity under the 
Act or the regulations made thereunder in the format and within the  timelines as may 
be specified.] 
 
(2) The listed entity shall put in pla ce infrastructure as required for compliance with 
sub-regulation (1).  
 
Scheme of Arrangement. 
11. The listed entity shall ensure that any scheme of arrangement /amalgamation /merger 
/reconstruction /reduction of capital etc. to be presented to any Court or Tribunal does 
not in any way violate, override or limit the provisions of securities laws or 
requirements of the stock exchange(s):  
 
Provided that this regulation shall not be applicable for the units issued by Mutual Fund which 
are listed on a recognised stock exchange(s). 
 
Payment of dividend or interest or redemption or repayment. 
12. The listed entity shall use any of the electronic mode of payment facility approved by 
the Reserve Bank of India, in the manner specified in Schedule I, for the payment of 
the following:  
(a) dividends; 
(b) interest; 
(c) redemption or repayment amounts 70[.] 
 
71[***] 
 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism.  
13. (1) 72[The listed entity shall redress investor grievances promptly but not later than 
twenty-one calendar days from the date of receipt of the grievance and in such manner 
as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
(2) The listed entity shall ensure that it is registered on the SCORES platform or such other 
electronic platform or system of the Board as shall be mandated from time to time, in order 
to handle investor complaints electronically in the manner specified by the Board.  
 
                                                           
69 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
70 Substituted for the symbol “:” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.11.2025. 
71 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.11.2025. Prior to the omission, the provisos read as under- 
“Provided that where it is not possible to use electronic mode of payment, ‘pay able-at-par’ warrants or 
cheques may be issued:  
Provided further that where the amount payable as dividend exceeds one thousand and five hundred 
rupees, the ‘payable-at-par’ warrants or cheques shall be sent by speed post.” 
72 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance  Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023. Prior to substitution, it read as follows: 
“The listed entity shall ensure that adequate steps are taken for expeditious redressal  of investor complaints.”

[Page 20]
20 
 
73[Provided that in case of securitised debt instrument, SCORES registration may be taken at 
Trustee level for all special purpose distinct entities, they are trustee of.] 
 
(3) 74[The listed entity shall file with the recognised stock exchange(s) on a qu arterly basis a 
statement detailing the redressal of investor grievances in such form and within the 
timelines as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
(4) The statement as specified in sub-regulation (3) shall be placed, on quarterly basis, before 
the board of directors of the listed entity. 
 
75[(5) The Board may also recognize a body corporate for handling and monitoring the process 
of grievance redressal within such time and in such manner as may be specified.] 
 
Fees and other charges to be paid to the recognized stock exchange(s).  
14. The listed entity shall pay all such fees or charges, as applicable, to the recognised stock 
exchange(s), in the manner specified by the Board or the recognised stock exchange(s).  
                                                           
73 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 01.05.2025. 
74 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31 .12.2024. Prior to the substitution, the sub -regulation read as 
under-  
“(3) The listed entity shall file with the recognised stock exchange(s) on a quarterly basis, within twenty 
one days from the end of each quarter, a statement giving the number of investor complaints pending at 
the beginning of the quarter, those received during the quarter, disposed of during the quarter and those 
remaining unresolved at the end of the quarter. 
75 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance  Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023.

[Page 21]
21 
 
CHAPTER IV 
OBLIGATIONS OF 76[A] LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS SPECIFIED 
SECURITIES 77[AND NON-CONVERTIBLE DEBT SECURITIES] 
 
Applicability. 
15. (1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to a listed entity which has listed its 
specified securities on any recognised stock exchange(s) either on the main board or on 
SME Exchange or on 78[Innovators Growth Platform]:  
 
79[(1A) The provisions of this regulation and 80[regulations] 16 to 81[***] 27 of this 
82[Chapter] shall apply to a listed entity which has listed its non -convertible debt 
securities and has an outstanding value of listed non -convertible debt securities of 
83[Rupees 84[Five]Thousand Crore] and above:  
85[Provided that in case the value of the outstanding listed non -convertible debt 
securities becomes  equal to or greater than the specified threshold of Rupees 
86[Five]Thousand Crore during the course of  the year, 87[the] high value debt listed 
entity shall ensure compliance with these provisions88[,] within six months from the date 
of such trigger, and the disclosures of such compliance may be made in the  corporate 
governance compliance report on and from the third qu arter89[,] following the date of 
the trigger:] 
                                                           
76 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendme nt) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
77 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
78 Substituted for “institutional trading platform” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
79 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment)  Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
80 Substituted for the word “regulation” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
81 The word “regulation” omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.  
82 Substituted for the word “chapter” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.  
83 Substituted for “Rupees Five Hundred Crore”  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.  
84 Substituted for the word “One” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.  
85 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025. Prior to the substitution, the proviso read as follows:  
“Provided that in case an entity that has listed its non-convertible debt securities triggers the specified 
threshold of Rupees Five Hundred Crore during the course of the year, it shall ensure compliance with 
these provisions within six months from the date of such trigger” 
86 Substituted for the word “One” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Lis ting Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.  
87 Substituted for the letter “a” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
88 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
89 ibid

[Page 22]
22 
 
Provided further that these provisions shall be applicable to a ‘high value debt listed 
entity’ on a ‘comply or explain’ basis until 90[March 31, 2025] and on a mandatory basis 
thereafter. 
Explanation (1) - The entities referred in the first proviso to sub -regulation (1A) of 
regulation 15 are referred to as ‘high value debt listed entities’ for the purpose of this 
chapter.  
 
91[***] 
 
Explanation (3) - ‘Comply or explain’ for the purpose of the second proviso to sub-
regulation (1A) of regulation 15 shall mean that the entity shall endeavour to comply 
with the provisions and achieve full compliance by 92[March 31, 2025]. In case the entity 
is not able to achieve full compliance with the provisions, till such time, it shall explain 
the reasons for such non -compliance/ partial compliance and the steps initiated to 
achieve full compliance in the quarterly compliance report filed under clause (a), sub -
regulation (2) of regulation 27 of these regulations. 
 
93 [***] 
 
94[Explanation (5) — In case a ‘high value debt listed entity’ has its specified securities 
listed, it shall  comply with the provisions of regulation 15 to regulation 27 of these 
regulations. 
 
(1AA) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -regulation (3) of regulation 3, once 
95[regulations] 15 to 27 become applicable to a ‘high value debt listed entity’, the said 
regulations 96[shall] continue to apply till 97[the] value of the outstanding listed debt securities 
as on March 31 in a year, reduces  and remains below the specified threshold for a period of 
three consecutive financial years.] 
 
                                                           
90 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.5.2024 for the words and symbol “March 31, 2024”.  
91 Omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. Prior to its omission, the Explanation (2) read as under:  
“Explanation (2) - The ‘high value debt listed entities’ on the date of notification of this amendment would be 
determined on basis of value of principal outstanding of listed debt securities as on March 31, 2021.” 
92 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.5.2024 for the words and symbol “March 31, 2024”.  
93 Omitted vide  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 1.04.2023. Prior to its omission, the Explanation (4) read as under: 
“Explanation (4)– (a) In case of a ‘high value debt listed entity’ that is a Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT), 
the Board of the Manager of the Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT), shall comply with regulation 15 to 
regulation 27 of these regulations related to corporate governance;  
(b) In case of a ‘high value debt listed entity’ that is an Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT), the Board of 
the Investment Manager of the Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT), shall comply with regulation 15 to 
regulation 27 of these regulations related to corporate governance.” 
94 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.  
95 Substituted for the word s “the reg ulation” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.  
96 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requir ements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
97 ibid

[Page 23]
23 
 
98[Provided that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not be applicable to entities which 
cease to be classified as HVDLEs in terms of the revised threshold as per Regulation 15(1A).] 
 
99[(1B) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, in case of an Infrastructure 
Investment Trust registered  under the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations,  2014, the governance norms specified 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 shall be applicable.] 
 
100[(1C) Notwithstanding anything  contained in this regulation, in case of a Real Estate 
Investment Trust registered under the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Real Estate Investment Trust) Regulations, 2014, the governance norms specified under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment Trust) Regu lations, 2014 
shall be applicable.] 
 
(2) The compliance with the corporate governance provisions as specified in regulations  17, 
101[17A,] 18, 19, 20, 21,22, 23, 24, 102[24A,] 25, 26, 103[26A,] 27 and clauses (b) to (i) 104[and 
(t)] of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 and para C , D and E of Schedule V shall not apply, 
in respect of - 
(a) 105[a] listed entity having paid up equity share capital not exceeding rupees ten crore 
and net worth not exceeding rupees twenty five crore, as on the last day of the previous 
financial year:  
106[Provided that where the provisions of regulations 17 to 27 , clauses (b) to (i) and (t) 
of sub -regulation (2) of regulation 46 and para C, D and E of Schedule V become 
applicable to a listed entity at a later date, it shall ensure compliance with the same 
within six months from such date:] 
107[Provided further that once the 108[corporate governance provisions as specified in 
regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 and 
para C, D and E of Schedule V] become applicable to a listed entity, they shall continue 
                                                           
98 ibid 
99 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 
w.e.f 1.04.2023. 
100 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 
w.e.f 1.04.2023. 
101 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.  
102 Inserted ibid.  
103 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of Indi a (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
104 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
105 Substituted for “the” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
106 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. Prior to the substitution, the proviso read as follows: 
“Provided that where the provisions of the regulations specified in this regulation becomes applicable 
to a listed entity at a later date, such listed entity shall comply with the requirements those regulatio ns 
within six months from the date on which the provisions became applicable to the listed entity.”  
107 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
108 Substituted for the words “ above regulations” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 24]
24 
 
to remain applicable till such time the equity share capital 109[and] the net-worth of such 
entity reduces and remains below the specified threshold for a period of three 
consecutive financial years.]  
 
(b) 110[a] listed entity which has listed its specified securities on the SME Exchange: 
111[***]  
112 [Provided that with effect from April 01, 2025, the provisions of regulation 23 shall 
be applicable in respect of a listed entity which has listed its specified securities on the 
SME Exchange and which has either paid up equity share capital exceeding Rupees ten 
crore or net worth exceeding Rupees twenty-five crore, as on the last day of the previous 
financial year: 
Provided further that where the provisions of regulation 23 become applicable at a later 
date to a listed entity which has listed its specified securities on the SME Exchange, it 
shall ensure compliance with the same within six months from such date: 
Provided further that once the provisions of regulation 23 become applicable to a listed 
entity which has listed its specified securities on the SME Exchange, they shall continue 
to remain applicable till  such time the equity share capital and the net -worth of such 
entity reduces and remains below the  specified threshold for a period of three 
consecutive financial years.] 
 
113[(2A) The provisions as specified in regulation 17 shall not be applicable during the 
insolvency resolution process period in respect of a listed entity 114[or a ‘high value debt listed 
entity’] which is undergoing corporate insolvency resolution process under the Insolvency 
Code: 
Provided that the role and responsibilities of the board of directors as specified under 
regulation 17 shall be fulfilled by the interim resolution professional or resolution professional 
in accordance with sections 17 and 23 of the Insolvency Code115[:] 
 
116[Provided further that such listed entity shall ensure compliance with regulation 17 
within a period of three months of approval of resolu tion plan under section 31 of the  
Insolvency Code.] 
                                                           
109 Substituted for the word “or” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing  Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
110 Substituted for “the” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
111 Omitted w.e. f. 1.9.2021 by  the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as under- 
“Provided that for other listed entities which are not companies, but body corporate or are subje ct to 
regulations under other statues, the provisions of corporate governance provisions as specified in 
regulation 17, 17A, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 24A, 25, 26, 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub -regulation 
(2) of regulation 46 and para C , D and E of Schedule V shall apply to the extent that it does not violate 
their respective statutes and guidelines or directives issued by the relevant authorities.”  
112 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.  
113 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 31.05.2018. 
114 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Re gulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
115 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
116 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 25]
25 
 
 
(2B) The provisions as specified in regulations 18, 19, 20 and 21 shall not be applicable during 
the insolvency resolution process period in respect of a listed entity  117[or a ‘high value debt 
listed entity’] which is undergoing corporate insolvency resolution process under the 
Insolvency Code: 
 
Provided that the roles and responsibilities of the committees specified in the 
respective regulations shall be fulfilled by the interim resolution professiona l or resolution 
professional118[:]]119 
 
120[Provided further that such listed entity shall ensure compliance with regulations  
18, 19, 20 and 21 within a period of three months of approval of resolution plan under section 
31 of the Insolvency Code.] 
 
(3) Notwithstanding sub-regulation (2) above, the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 shall 
continue to apply, wherever applicable. 
 
Definitions.  
16. (1) For the purpose of this chapter , unless the context otherwise requires -  
(a) "control" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011; 
 
(b) "independent director" means a non -executive director, other than a nominee 
director of the listed entity:  
(i) who, in the opinion of the board of directors, is a person of integrity and 
possesses relevant expertise and experience; 
(ii) who is or was not a promoter of the listed entity or its holding, subsidiary 
or associate company 121[or member of the promoter group of the  listed 
entity]; 
(iii) who is not related to promoters or directors in the listed entity, its holding, 
subsidiary or associate company; 
(iv) who, apart from receiving director's remuneration, has or had no material 
pecuniary relationship with the listed entity, its h olding, subsidiary or 
associate company, or their promoters, or directors, during the 122[three] 
immediately preceding financial years or during the current financial year; 
(v) none of whose relatives— 
                                                           
117 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
118 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
119 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 31.05.2018. 
120 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
121 Inserted by the SEBI (List ing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.10.2018. 
122 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022 for the word “two”.

[Page 26]
26 
 
 123[ (A) is holding securities of or interest in the listed entity, its 
holding, subsidiary or associate company during the three immediately 
preceding financial years or during the current financial year of face 
value in excess of fifty lakh rupees or two percent of the paid-up capital 
of the listed entity, its holding, subsidiary or associate company , 
respectively, or such higher sum as may be specified; 
(B) is indebted to the listed entity, its holding, subsidiary or associate 
company or their promoters or directors, in excess of suc h amount as 
may be specified during the three immediately preceding financial 
years or during the current financial year; 
(C) has given a guarantee or provided any security in connection with 
the indebtedness of any third person to the listed entity, its h olding, 
subsidiary or associate company or their promoters or directors, for 
such amount as may be specified during the three immediately 
preceding financial years or during the current financial year; or 
(D) has any other pecuniary transaction or relation ship with the listed 
entity, its holding, subsidiary or associate company amounting to two 
percent or more of its gross turnover or total income: 
Provided that the pecuniary relationship or transaction with the listed 
entity, its holding, subsidiary or associate company or their promoters, 
or directors in relation to points (A) to (D) above shall not exceed two 
percent of its gross turnover or total income or fifty lakh rupees or such 
higher amount as may be specified from time to time, whichever is 
lower.] 
(vi) who, neither himself 124[“/herself], nor whose relative(s) — 
(A) holds or has held the position of a key managerial personnel or is or 
has been an employee of the listed entity or its holding, subsidiary or 
associate company 125[or any company belonging to the promoter 
group of the listed entity,]  in any of the three financial years 
immediately preceding the financial year in which he is proposed to 
be appointed:  
126[Provided that in case of a relative , who is an employee other than 
key managerial personnel, the restriction under this clause shall not 
apply for his / her employment.] 
(B) is or has been an employee or proprietor or a partner, in any of the 
three financial years immediately preceding the financial year in 
which he is proposed to be appointed, of — 
                                                           
123 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022 for the following: 
“has or had pecuniary relationship or transaction with the listed entity, its holding, subsidiary 
or associate company, or their promoters, or directors, amounting to two per cent. or more of 
its gross turnover or total income or fifty lakh rupees or such higher amount as may be 
prescribed from time to time, whichever is  lower, during the two immediately preceding 
financial years or during the current financial year”. 
124 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
125 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
126 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022.

[Page 27]
27 
 
(1) a firm of auditors or company secretaries in practice or cost 
auditors of the listed entity or its holding, subsidiary or associate 
company; or 
(2) any legal or a consulting firm that has or had any transaction with 
the listed entity, its holding, subsidiar y or associate company 
amounting to ten per cent or more of the gross turnover of such 
firm; 
(C) holds together with his relatives two per cent or more of the total 
voting power of the listed entity; or 
(D) is a chief executive or director, by whatever name called, of any non-
profit organisation that receives twenty -five per cent or more of its 
receipts or corpus from the listed entity, any of its promoters, directors 
or its holding, subsidiary or associate c ompany or that holds two per 
cent or more of the total voting power of the listed entity;  
(E) is a material supplier, service provider or customer or a lessor or lessee 
of the listed entity; 
(vii) who is not less than 21 years of age. 
127[(viii) who is not a non -independent director of another company on the 
board of which any non -independent director of the listed entity is an 
independent director:] 
128[Explanation- In case of a ‘high value debt listed entity’:  
(a) which is a body corporate, mandated to constitute its board of directors 
in a specific manner in accordance with the law under which it is 
established, the non - executive directors on its board shall be treated as 
independent directors;  
(b) which is a Trust, mandated to constitut e its ‘board of trustees’ in 
accordance with the law under which it is established, the non -employee 
trustees on its board shall be treated as independent directors.] 
 
(c) “material subsidiary” shall mean a subsidiary, whose 129[turnover] or net worth 
exceeds 130[ten] percent of the consolidated 131[turnover] or net worth  
respectively, of the listed entity and its subsidiaries in the immediately 
preceding accounting year.  
Explanation.- The listed entity shall formulate a policy for determining ‘material’ 
subsidiary.  
 
132[(d) “senior management” shall mean the officers and personnel of the listed entity 
who are members of its core management team, excluding the Board of Directors, and 
                                                           
127 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.10.2018. 
128 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
129 Substituted for the word “income” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024  
130 Substituted ibid for the word “twenty”, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.  
131 Substituted for the word “income” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024  
132 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 
w.e.f. 17.1.2023. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as follows: 
““senior management” shall mean officers/personnel of the listed entity who are members of its core 
management team excluding board of directors and normally this shall comprise all members of

[Page 28]
28 
 
shall also comprise all the members of  the management one level below the Chief 
Executive Officer or Managing Director or Whole Time Director or Manager 
(including Chief Executive Officer and Manager, in case they are not part of the Board 
of Directors) and shall specifically include the functional heads, by whatever name 
called and the 133[persons identified and designated as key managerial personnel, other 
than the board of directors, by the listed entity].] 
 
Board of Directors. 
17. (1) The composition of board of directors of the listed entity shall be as follows:  
(a) board of directors shall have an optimum combination of executive and non -
executive directors with at least one woman director and not less than fifty per 
cent. of the board of directors shall comprise of non-executive directors; 
 
134[Provided that the Board of directors of the 135[***] top 1000 listed entities 
shall have at least one independent woman director 136[***];  
 
137 [***] 
 
(b) where the chairperson of the board of directo rs is a non-executive director, at 
least one-third of the board of directors shall comprise of independent directors 
and where the listed entity does not have a regular non -executive chairperson, 
at least half of the board of directors shall comprise of independent directors: 
Provided that where the regular non-executive chairperson is a promoter of the 
listed entity or is related to any promoter or person occupying management 
positions at the level of board of director or at one level below the board of 
directors, at least half of the board of directors of the listed entity shall consist 
of independent directors. 
 Explanation.- For the purpose of this clause, the expression “related to any 
promoter" shall have the following meaning:  
(i) if the promoter is a listed entity, its directors other than the independent 
directors, its employees or its nominees shall be deemed to be related to it; 
(ii) if the promoter is an unlisted entity, its directors, its employees or its nominees 
shall be deemed to be related to it. 
 
                                                           
management one level below the 132[“chief executive officer/managing director/whole time 
director/manager (including chief executive officer/manager, in case they are not part of the board) and 
shall specifically include company secretary and chief financial officer.]” 
133 Substituted for the word s “Company Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obli gations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024 
134 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
135 The words “top 500 listed entities shall have at least one independent woman director by April 1, 2019 and 
the Board of directors of the” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024.  
136 The words “by April 1, 2020” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024.  
137 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024. Prior to its omission, the Explanation read as follows:  
“Explanation: The top 500 and 1000 entities shall be determined on the basis of market capitalisation, 
as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.”

[Page 29]
29 
 
138[(c) The board of directors of the  139[***] top 2000 listed entities  140[***]  shall 
comprise of not less than six directors.  
 
141 [***] 
 
 
142[(d) where the listed company has outstanding SR equity shares, atleast half of the 
board of directors shall comprise of independent directors.] 
 
143[(1A) No listed entity shall appoint a person or continue the directorship of any 
person as a non -executive director who has attained the age of seventy five years 
unless a special resolution is passed to that effect, in which case the explanatory 
statement annexed to the notice for such motion shall indicate the justification for 
appointing such a person144[:]] 
 
 145[Provided that the listed entity shall ensure comp liance with this sub -
regulation at the time of appointment or re-appointment or any time prior to the non -
executive director attaining the age of seventy- five years.] 
 
146[***]  
 
                                                           
138 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.  
139 The words “top 1000 listed entities (with effect from April 1, 2019) and the ” omitted by the Se curities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 
w.e.f. 31.12.2024. 
140 The words “(with effect from April 1, 2020)” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024.  
141 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024.. Prior to its omission, the Explanation read as follows:  
“Explanation: The top 1000 and 2000 entities shall be determined on the basis of market capitalisation 
as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.” 
142 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2019, w.e.f. 29.7.2019. 
143 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
144 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
145 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
146 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 22.3.2022. Prior to the omission, sub-regulation (1B) read as follows:  
“(1B). With effect from [April 1, 2022,] the top 500 listed entities shall ensure that the Chairperson 
of the board of such listed entity shall -  
(a) be a non-executive director; 
(b) not be related to the Managing Director or the Chief Executive Officer as per the definition of 
the term “relative” defined under the Companies Act, 2013:  
Provided that this sub-regulation shall not be applicable to the listed entities which do not have any 
identifiable promoters as per the shareholding pattern filed with stock exchanges.  
Explanation - The top 500 e ntities shall be determined on the basis of market capitalisation, as at 
the end of the immediate previous financial year.”

[Page 30]
30 
 
147[(1C). (a) The listed entity shall ensure that approval of shareholders for 
appointment or reappointment of a person on the board of directors or as a manager is 
taken at the next general meeting or within a time period of three months from the date 
of appointment, whichever is earlier: 
 
Provided that if such appointment or re -appointment of a pers on to the board of 
directors or as a manager is subject to approval of regulatory, government or statutory 
authorities, then the time taken to receive such approvals shall be excluded for the 
purposes of this clause: 
 
Provided further that a public sector company shall ensure that the approval of the 
shareholders for appointment or re-appointment of a person on the board of directors 
or as a Manager is taken at the next general meeting: 
 
Provided further that the requirements specified in this clause shall not be applicable 
to appointment or re -appointment of a person nominated by a financial sector 
regulator, Court or Tribunal to the board of the listed entity. 
 
(b) The appointment or a re-appointment of a person, including as a managing director 
or a whole-time director or a manager, who was earlier rejected by the shareholders at 
a general meeting, shall be done only with the prior approval of the shareholders: 
 
Provided that the statement referred to under sub -section (1) of section 102 of the  
Companies Act, 2013, annexed to the notice to th e shareholders, for considering the  
appointment or re -appointment of such a person earlier rejected by the shareholders 
shall contain a detailed explanation and justification by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and the board of directors for recommending such a person 
for appointment or re-appointment.] 
                                                           
147 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Reg ulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  Prior to the substitution, the sub -regulation read as 
under-  
“(1C). The listed entity shall ensure that approval of shareholders for appointment  or re -appointment 
of a person on the Board of Directors  or as a manager is  taken at the next general meeting or within a 
time period of three months from the date of appointment, whichever is earlier: 
 Provided that a public sector company shall ensure that the approval of the shareholders for 
appointment or re -appointment of a person on the Board of Directors or as a Manager is taken at the 
next general meeting: 
 Provided  further that the appointment or a re-appointment of a person, including as a managing director 
or a whole-time director or a manager, who was earlier rejected by the shareholders at a general meeting, 
shall be done only with the prior approval of the shareholders: 
Provided further that the statement referred to under sub -section (1) of section 102 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, annexed to the notice to the shareholders, for considering the appointment or re-appointment 
of such a person earlier rejected by the shareholders shall contain a detailed explanation and justification 
by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of directors for recommending s uch a 
person for appointment or re-appointment.”

[Page 31]
31 
 
148[(1D) With effect from April 1, 2024, the continuation of a director serving on the 
board of directors of a listed entity shall be subject to the approval by the shareholders 
in a general meeting at least once in every five years from the date of their appointment 
or reappointment, as the case may be:  
  
Provided that the continuation of the director serving on the board of directors of a 
listed entity as on March 31, 2024, without the approval of t he shareholders for the 
last five years or more shall be subject to the approval of shareholders in the first 
general meeting to be held after March 31, 2024:  
 
Provided further that the requirement specified in this 149[sub-regulation] shall not be 
applicable to the Whole -Time Director, Managing Director, Manager, Independent 
Director or a Director retiring as per the sub -section (6) of section 152 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, if the approval of the shareholders for the reappointment or 
continuation of the aforesaid directors or Manager is otherwise provided for by the 
provisions of these regulations or the Companies Act, 2013 and has been complied 
with:  
 
Provided further that the requirement specified in this 150[sub-regulation] shall not be 
applicable to the director appointed pursuant to the order of a Court or a Tribunal or 
to a nominee director of the Government on the board of a listed entity, other than a 
public sector company, or to a nominee director of a financial sector regulator  on the 
board of a listed entity:  
 
Provided further that the requirement specified in this 151[sub-regulation] shall not be 
applicable to a director nominated by a financial institution registered with or regulated 
by the Reserve Bank of India under a lendi ng arrangement in its normal course of 
business or nominated by a Debenture Trustee registered with the Board under a 
subscription agreement for the debentures issued by the listed entity. 
 
(1E) Any vacancy in the office of a director shall be filled by th e listed entity at the 
earliest and in any case not later than three months from the date 152[of] such vacancy:  
 
153[Provided that if the vacancy in the office of a director results in non -compliance 
with the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 18, sub-regulation (1) or (2) of 
regulation 19, sub-regulation (2) or (2A) of regulation 20 or sub -regulation (2) or (3) 
of regulation 21, the listed entity shall ensure compliance at the earliest and in any case 
not later than three months from the date of such vacancy:] 
 
                                                           
148 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023.  
149 Substituted for the word “regulation” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024  
150 Substituted for the word “regulation” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024  
151 Substituted for the word “regulation” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024 
152 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
153 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 32]
32 
 
Provided 154[further] that if the listed entity becomes non -compliant with the 
requirement under sub -regulation (1) of this regulation,  155[sub-regulation (1) of 
regulation 18, sub-regulation (1) or (2) of regulation 19, sub-regulation (2) or (2A) of 
regulation 20 or sub -regulation (2) or (3) of  regulation 21,] due to expiration of the 
term of office of any director, the resulting vacancy shall be filled by the listed entity 
not later than the date such office is vacated: 
 
Provided further that t his sub-regulation shall not apply if the listed entity fulfils the 
requirement under sub -regulation (1) of this regulati on 156[sub-regulation (1) of 
regulation 18, sub-regulation (1) and (2) of regulation 19, sub-regulation (2) and (2A) 
of regulation 20 and  sub-regulation (2) and (3) of regulation 21 ] without filling the 
vacancy.] 
 
(2) The board of directors shall meet at least four times a  157[financial] year, with a 
maximum time gap of one hundred and twenty days between any two  158[consecutive] 
meetings.  
 
159[(2A) The quorum for every meeting of the board of directors of the 160[***] top 2000 
listed entities 161[***] shall be one-third of its total strength or three directors, whichever 
is higher, including at least one independent director.  
 
Explanation 162[***]– For removal of doubts, it is clarified that the participation of the 
directors by video conferencing or by other audio -visual means shall also be counted 
for the purposes of such quorum. 
 
163 [***] 
 
 
                                                           
154 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
155 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
156 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
157 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
158 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
159 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. the dates specified in the provision. 
160 The words “top 1000 listed entities with effect from April 1, 2019 and of the ” omitted by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 
w.e.f. 31.12.2024. 
161 The words “with effect from April 1, 2020 ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024.  
162 The numeral “I” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Boar d of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024. 
163 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024. Prior to its omission, the Explanation read as follows:  
“Explanation II - The top 1000 and 2000 entities shall be determined on the basis of market 
capitalisation, as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.”

[Page 33]
33 
 
(3) The board of directors shall periodically review complianc e reports pertaining to all 
laws applicable to the listed entity, prepared by the listed entity as well as steps taken 
by the listed entity to rectify instances of non-compliances.  
 
(4) The board of directors of the listed entity shall satisfy itself that plans are in place for 
orderly succession for appointment to the board of directors and senior management. 
 
(5) (a) The board of directors shall lay down a code of conduct for all members of board 
  of directors and senior management of the listed entity. 
 
(b) The code of conduct shall suitably incorporate the duties of independent directors 
as laid down in the Companies Act, 2013.  
 
(6) (a) The board of directors shall recommend all fees or compensation, if any, paid to 
non-executive directors, including independent directors and shall require approval 
of shareholders in general meeting. 
 
(b)  The requirement of obtaining approval of shareholders in general meeting shall not 
apply to payment of sitting fees to non-executive directors, if made within the limits 
prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 for payment of sitting fees without 
approval of the Central Government. 
 
(c)  The approval of shareholders mentioned in clause (a), shall sp ecify the limits for 
the maximum number of stock options that may be granted to non -executive 
directors, in any financial year and in aggregate. 
 
164[(ca) The approval of shareholders by special resolution shall be obtained every 
165[financial] year, in which the annual remuneration payable to a single non -
executive director exceeds fifty per cent of the total annual remuneration payable 
to all non-executive directors, giving details of the remuneration thereof.] 
 
(d)  Independent directors shall not be entitled to any stock option. 
 
166[(e) The fees or compensation payable to executive directors who are promoters 
or members of the promoter group, shall be subject to the approval of the 
shareholders by special resolution in general meeting, if- 
(i) the annual remunera tion payable to such executive director exceeds rupees 5 
crore or 2.5 per cent of the net profits of the listed entity, whichever is higher; or  
(ii) where there is more than one such director, the aggregate annual remuneration 
to such directors exceeds 5 per cent of the net profits of the listed entity: 
 
Provided that the approval of the shareholders under this provision shall be valid 
only till the expiry of the term of such director. 
 
                                                           
164 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
165 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
166 Inserted ibid.

[Page 34]
34 
 
Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, net profits shall be cal culated as per 
section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013.] 
 
(7) The minimum information to be placed before the board of directors is specified in 
Part A of Schedule II.  
 
(8) The chief executive officer and the chief financial officer shall provide the compliance 
certificate to the board of directors as specified in Part B of Schedule II.  
 
(9) (a) The listed entity shall lay down procedures to inform members of board of directors 
about risk assessment and minimization procedures. 
 
(b)  The board of directors shall be responsible for framing, implementing and 
monitoring the risk management plan for the listed entity. 
 
167[(10) The evaluation of independent directors shall be done by the entire board of 
directors which shall include -  
(a) performance of the directors; and  
(b) fulfillment of the independence criteria as specified in these regulations and their 
independence from the management:  
 
Provided that in the above evaluation, the directors who are subject to evaluation 
shall not participate.] 
 
168[(11). The statement to be annexed to the notice as referred to in sub-section (1) of section 
102 of the Companies Act, 2013 for each item of special business to be transacted at a general 
meeting shall also set forth clearly the recommendation of the board to the shareholders  
169[along with the rationale] on each of the specific items.] 
 
170[Maximum number of directorships. 
17A. The directors of listed entities shall comply with the following conditions with respect 
to the maximum number of directorships, including any alternate directorships that can be 
held by them at any point of time -  
 
(1) A person shall not be a director in more than eight listed entities with effect from 
April 1, 2019 and in not more than seven listed entities with effect from April 1, 2020:  
 
Provided that a person shall not serve as an independent director in more than seven 
listed entities.  
 
                                                           
167 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (10) read as follows: 
“(10) The performance evaluation of independen t directors shall be done by the entire board of 
directors:  
Provided that in the above evaluation the directors who are subject to evaluation shall not participate.” 
168 Inserted ibid. 
169 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
170 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.

[Page 35]
35 
 
(2) Notwithstanding the above, any person who is serving as a whole time director / 
managing director in any listed entity shall serve as an independent director in not 
more than three listed entities. 
 
171[Explanation 172[1]—] For the purpose of this 173[regulation], the count for the number of 
listed entities on which a person is a director / independent director 174[shall be cumulative of 
those whose equity shares are listed on a stock exchange and ‘high value debt listed entities’.] 
 
175[Explanation (2) — For the purpose of this regulation, the directorship(s) held by a person 
on an ex-officio basis due to statute or applicable contractual framework in case of public 
sector undertakings and entities set up under a public private partnership arrangement shall 
not be included in calculating the maximum number of directorships: 
 
Provided that nothing in this provision relating to HVDLE shall come into effect for a period 
of six months from the date of publication of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 in the Official 
Gazette or the date of Annual General Meeting, whichever is later.] 
 
Audit Committee. 
18. (1) Every listed entity shall constitute a qualified and independent audit committee in 
accordance with the terms of reference, subject to the following: 
(a) The audit committee shall have minimum three directors as members.  
(b) 176[At least] two-thirds of the members of audit committee shall be independent 
directors 177[and in case of a listed entity having outstanding SR equity shares, the 
audit committee shall only comprise of independent directors]. 
(c) All members of audit committee shall be financially literate and at least one member 
shall have accounting or related financial management expertise. 
 
Explanation (1).- For the purpose of this regulation, “financially literate” shall mean 
the ability to read and understand basic financial statements i.e. balance sheet, profit 
and loss account, and statement of cash flows. 
 
Explanation (2).- For the purpose of this regulation , a member shall be considered 
to have accounting or related financial management expertise if he or she possesses 
experience in finance or accounting, or requisite professional certification in 
accounting, or any other comparable experience or background which results in the 
individual’s financial sophistication, including being or having been a chief 
                                                           
171 The paragraph appearing at the end of regul ation 17A converted to an Explanation by the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.  
172 Numbered as Explanation (1) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.   
173 Substituted for “sub -regulation’ by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
174 Substituted for the words “sh all be only those whose equity shares are listed on a stock exchange” by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.  
175 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.  
176 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
177 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2019, w.e.f. 29.7.2019.

[Page 36]
36 
 
executive officer, chief financial officer or other senior officer with financial 
oversight responsibilities. 
 
(d) The chairperson of the audit committee shall be an independent director and he 
178[/she] shall be present at Annual general meeting to answer shareholder queries. 
(e) The Company Secretary shall act as the secretary to the audit committee. 
(f) The audit committee at its discretion shall invite the finance director or head of the 
finance function, head of internal audit and a representative of the statutory auditor 
and any other such executives to be present at the meetings of the committee: 
Provided that occasionally the audit  committee may meet without the presence of 
any executives of the listed entity.  
 
(2) The listed entity shall conduct the meetings of the audit committee in the following 
manner: 
(a) The audit committee shall meet at least four times in a 179[financial] year and not 
more than one hundred and twenty days shall elapse between two  180[consecutive]  
meetings.  
 
(b) The quorum for audit committee meeting shall either be two members or one third 
of the members of the audit committee, whichever is greater, with at least two 
independent directors. 
 
(c) The audit committee shall have powers to investigate any activity within its terms 
of reference, seek information from any employee, obtain outside legal or other 
professional advice and secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise, if it 
considers necessary.  
 
(3) The role of the audit committee and the information to be reviewed by the audit committee 
shall be as specified in Part C of Schedule II. 
 
Nomination and remuneration committee. 
19.  (1) The board of directors shall constitute the nomination and remuneration committee 
as follows:  
(a) the committee shall comprise of at least three directors ;  
(b) all directors of the committee shall be non-executive directors; and  
(c) at least 181[two-thirds] of the directors shall be independent directors 182[***]. 
 
(2) The Chairperson of the nomination and remuneration committee shall be an independent 
director:  
                                                           
178 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
179 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
180 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
181 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022 for the words “fifty percent”. 
182 The words and symbol “[and in case of a listed entity having outstanding SR equity shares, two thirds  of the 
nomination and remuneration committee shall comprise of independent directors]“ omitted by the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021 read with the corrigendum, 
w.e.f. 1.1.2022.

[Page 37]
37 
 
Provided that the chairperson of the listed entity, whether executive or non -executive, 
may be appointed as a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and shall 
not chair such Committee. 
 
183[(2A) The quorum for a meeting of the nomination and remuneration committee shall 
be either two members or one third of the members of the committee, whichever is 
greater, including at least one independent director in attendance.] 
 
(3) The Chairperson of the nomination and remuneration committee may be present at the 
annual general meeting, to answer the shareholders' queries; however, it shall be up to 
the chairperson to decide who shall answer the queries. 
 
184[(3A) The nomination and remuneration committee shall meet at least once in a  
185[financial] year.] 
 
(4) The role of the nomination and remuneration committee shall be as specified as in Part D 
of the Schedule II.  
 
 
 
 
 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee. 
20. (1) The listed entity shall constitute a Stakeholders Relationship Committee to 
specifically look into 186[various aspects of interest] of shareholders, debenture holders 
and other security holders.  
 
(2) The chairperson of this committee shall be a non-executive director.  
 
187[(2A) At least three directors, with at least one being an independent director, shall be 
members of the Committee 188[and in case of a listed entity having outstanding SR equity 
shares, at least two thirds of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee shall comprise of 
independent directors].] 
189[(3) The Chairperson of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee shall be present at the 
annual general meetings to answer queries of the security holders.] 
 
                                                           
183 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.  
184 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
185 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
186 Substituted for the words “ the mechanism of redressal of grievances ” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.  
187 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
188 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations,  
2019, w.e.f. 29.7.2019. 
189 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as follows: 
“(3) The board of directors shall decide other members of this committee.”

[Page 38]
38 
 
190[(3A) The stakeholders relationship committee shall meet at least once in a 191[financial] 
year.] 
 
(4) The role of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee shall be as specified as in Part D of 
the Schedule II.  
 
Risk Management Committee. 
21. (1) The board of directors shall constitute a Risk Management Committee.  
 
(2) 192 [The Risk Management Committee shall have minimum three members with majority 
of them being members of the board of directors, including at least one independent 
director and in case of a listed e ntity having outstanding SR equity shares, at least two 
thirds of the Risk Management Committee shall comprise independent directors.] 
 
(3) The Chairperson of the Risk management committee shall be a member of the board of 
directors and senior executives of the listed entity may be members of the committee.  
 
193[(3A) The risk management committee shall meet at least 194[twice] in a 195[financial] year.] 
 
196[(3B) The quorum for a meeting of the Risk Management Committee shall be either two 
members or one third of the members of the committee, whichever is higher, including at least 
one member of the board of directors in attendance. 
(3C) The meetings of the risk management committee shall be conducted in such a manner 
that on a continuous basis not more than 197[two hundred and ten] days shall elapse between 
any two consecutive meetings.] 
 
(4) The board of directors shall define the role and responsibility of the Risk Management 
Committee and may delegate monitoring and reviewing of the risk management plan to 
the commit tee and such other functions as it may deem fit 198[such function shall 
specifically cover cyber security]:  
                                                           
190 Inserted ibid. 
191 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
192 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as follows: 
“The majority of members of Risk Management Committee shall consist of members of the board of 
directors and in case of a listed entity having outstanding SR equity shares, at least two thirds of the 
Risk Management Committee shall comprise of independent directors.” 
193 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
194 Substituted for “once” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021 
195 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
196 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
197 Substituted for the words “one hundred and eighty” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.5.2024  
198 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.

[Page 39]
39 
 
199[Provided that the role and responsibilities of the Risk Management Committee shall 
mandatorily include the performance of functions specified in Part D of Schedule II.] 
 
200[(5) The provisions of this regulation shall be applicable to:  
i. the top 1000 listed entities 201[***]; and,  
ii. a ‘high value debt listed entity’.] 
 
202[(6) The Risk Management Committee shall have powers to seek information from any 
employee, obtain outside legal or other professional advice and secure attendance of outsiders 
with relevant expertise, if it considers necessary.] 
 
Vigil mechanism.  
22. (1) The listed entity shall formulate a vigil mechanism 203[/whistle blower policy] for 
directors and employees to report genuine concerns.  
(2) The vigil mechanism shall provide for adequate safeguards against victimization of 
director(s) or employee(s) or any other person who avail the mechanism and also provide 
for direct access to the ch airperson of the audit committee in appropriate or exceptional 
cases.  
 
Related party transactions. 
23. (1) The listed entity shall formulate a policy on materiality of related party transactions 
and on dealing with related party transactions 204[including clear threshold limits duly 
approved by the board of directors and such policy shall be reviewed by the board of 
directors at least once every three years and updated accordingly]: 
205[ Provided that a transaction with a related party shall be considered material , if the 
transaction(s) to be entered into individually or taken together with previous transactions 
                                                           
199 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
200 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, sub-regulation (5) read as follows:  
“(5) The provisions of this regulation shall be applicable to top [1000] listed entities, determined on the 
basis of market capitalisation, as at the end of the immediate previous financial year“. 
201 The words “ , determined on the basis of market capitalization as at the end of the immediate preceding 
financial year ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024 
202 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
203 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
204 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
205 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. Prior to the substitution, the provision read as under:  
“Explanation. - A transaction with a related party shall be considered material if the transaction(s) to be entered 
into individually or taken together with previous transactions during a f inancial year, exceeds ten percent of 
the annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited financial statements of the listed 
entity.”

[Page 40]
40 
 
during a financial year, exceeds 206[the thresholds specified in Sch edule XII of these 
regulations]207[:]] 
208[Provided further that with effect from April 01, 2025, in case of a listed entity which has 
listed its specified securities on the SME Exchange, a transaction with a related party shall be 
considered material, if the transaction(s) to be entered into individually or taken together with 
previous transactions during a financial year, exceeds Rupees fifty crore or ten per cent. of the 
annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited financial statements of 
the listed entity, whichever is lower.] 
 
209[(1A) Notwithstanding the above, [wi th effect from July 01, 2019] 210 a transaction 
involving payments made to a related party with respect to brand usage or royalty shall be 
considered material if the transaction(s) to be entered into individually or taken together with 
previous transactions d uring a financial year, exceed 211{five} percent of the annual 
consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited financial statements of the 
listed entity.]  
 
(2) All related party transactions 212[and subsequent material modifications] shall require prior 
approval of the audit committee 213[of the listed entity]:  
214[Provided that only those members of the audit committee, who are independent 
directors, shall approve related party transactions.] 
215[ Provided further that: 
(a) the audit committee of a listed entity shall define “material modification s” and 
disclose it as part of the policy on materiality of related party transactions and on 
dealing with related party transactions; 
216[(b) a related party transaction above rupees one crore, whether entered into  
individually or taken together with previous transactions during a financial year, to 
                                                           
206 Substituted for the words and symbol “ rupees one thousand crore or ten per cent of the annual consolidated 
turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited financial statements of the listed entity, whichever is lower ” 
by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Lis ting Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.12.2025. 
207 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.   
208 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of In dia (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.  
209 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.  
210 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 
211 Substituted for the word "two" by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. June 27, 2019 
212 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) ( Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. 
213 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. 
214 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
215 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. 
216 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.12.2025. Prior to the substitution, clause (b) of the proviso read 
as under- 
“(b) a related party transaction to which the subsidiary of a listed entity is a party but the listed entity is 
not a party, shall require prior approval of the audit committee of the listed entity if the value of such 
transaction whether entered into individuall y or taken together with previous transactions during a

[Page 41]
41 
 
which the subsidiary of a listed entity is a party but the listed entity is not a party,  
shall require prior approval of the audit committee of the listed entity if the value 
of such transaction, exceeds the lower of the following: 
(i) ten percent of the annual standalone turnover of the subsidiary as per  the 
last audited financial statements of the subsidiary; or 
(ii) the threshold for material related party transactions of listed entity  as 
specified in Schedule XII of these regulations.] 
217[(c) In the event of a related party transaction above rupees one crore, whether  
entered into individually or taken together with previous transactions during a 
financial year, to which the subsidiary of a listed entity is a party but the listed entity 
is not a party and such subsidiary does not have audited financial statements for a  
period of at least one year, prior approval of the audit committee of the listed entity 
shall be obtained if the value of such transaction exceeds the lower of the following: 
(i) ten percent of the aggregate value of paid -up share capital and  securities 
premium account of the subsidiary; or 
(ii) the threshold for material related pa rty transactions of listed entity  as 
specified in Schedule XII of these regulations: 
 
Provided that the aggregate value of paid-up share capital and securities 
premium account of the subsidiary shall be taken as on a date,  not older than 
three months prior to the date of seeking approval of the audit committee.] 
(d) prior approval of the audit committee of the listed entity shall not be required 
for a related party transaction to which the listed subsidiary is a party but the listed 
entity is not a party, if regulation 23 and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 15 of these 
regulations are applicable to such listed subsidiary. 
Explanation: For related party transactions of unlisted subsidiaries of a listed 
subsidiary as referred to in (d) above, the prior approval of the audit committee of 
the listed subsidiary shall suffice.] 
 
218[e) remuneration and sitting fees paid by the listed entity or its subsidiary to its 
director, key managerial personnel or senior management, except who is part of 
promoter or promoter group,  shall not require approval of the audit committee 
provided that the same is not material in terms of  the provisions of sub-regulation 
(1) of this regulation. 
 
(f) The members of the audit committee, who are independent directors, may ratify 
related party transactions within three months from the date of the transaction or in 
the immediate next meeting of the audit committee, whichever is earlier, subject to 
the following conditions: 
                                                           
financial year exceeds ten per cent of the annual consolidated turnover, as per the last audited financial 
statements of the listed entity;” 
217 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.12.2025.  Prior to the substitution, clause (c) to the proviso read 
as under- 
“(c) with effect from April 1, 2023, a related party transaction to which the subs idiary of a listed entity 
is a party but the listed entity is not a party, shall require prior approval of the audit committee of the 
listed entity if the value of such transaction whether entered into individually or taken together with 
previous transactions during a financial year, exceeds ten per cent of the annual standalone turnover, as 
per the last audited financial statements of the subsidiary;” 
218 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 42]
42 
 
 
(i) the value of the ratified transaction(s) with a related party, whether entered into 
individually or taken together, during a financial year shall not exceed rupees one 
crore; 
 
(ii) the transaction is not material in terms of the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of 
this regulation; 
 
(iii) rationale for inability to seek prior approval for the transaction shall be placed 
before the audit committee at the time of seeking ratification; 
 
(iv) the details of ratification shall be disclosed along with the disclosures of related 
party transactions in terms of the provisions of sub-regulation (9) of this regulation; 
 
(v) any other condition as specified by the audit committee: 
 
Provided that failure to seek ratification of the audit committee shall render the 
transaction voidable at the option of the audit committee and if the transaction is 
with a related party to any  director, or is au thorised by any other director, the 
director(s) concerned shall indemnify the listed entity against any loss incurred by 
it.] 
 
(3) Audit committee may grant omnibus approval for related party transactions proposed to 
be entered into by the listed entity 219[or its subsidiary] subject to the following conditions, 
namely- 
 
(a) the audit committee shall lay down the criteria for granting the omnibus approval 
in line with the policy on related party transactions 220[***] and such approval shall be 
applicable in respect of transactions which are repetitive in nature; 
(b) the audit committee shall satisfy itself regarding the need for such omnibus 
approval and that such approval is in the interest of the listed entity; 
(c) the omnibus approval shall specify: 
(i) the name(s) of the related party, nature of transaction, period of 
transaction, maximum amount of transactions that shall be entered into, 
(ii) the indicative base price / current contracted price and the formula for 
variation in the price if any; and  
(iii) such other conditions as the audit committee may deem fit: 
Provided that where the need for related party transaction cannot be foreseen 
and aforesaid details are not available, audit committee may grant omnibus 
approval for such transactions subject to their value not exceeding rupees one 
crore per transaction. 
(d) the audit committee shall review, at least on a quarterly basis, the details of related 
party transactions entered into by the listed entity 221[or its subsidiary] pursuant to each 
of the omnibus approvals given. 
                                                           
219 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
220 The words “of the listed entity” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
221 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Require ments) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 43]
43 
 
(e) Such omnibus approvals shall be valid for a period not exceeding one year and shall 
require fresh approvals after the expiry of one year: 
 
(4) All material related party transactions 222[and subsequent material modifications as 
defined by the audit committee under sub-regulation (2)] shall require 223[prior] approval 
of the shareholders through resolution and 224[no related party shall vote to approve] such 
resolutions whether the entity is a related party to the particular transaction or not: 
225[ Provided that prior approval of the shareholders of a listed entity shall not be required 
for a related party transaction to which the listed subsidiary is a party but the listed entity 
is not a party, if regulation 23 and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 15 of these regulations 
are applicable to such listed subsidiary. 
Explanation: For related party transactions of unlisted subsidiaries of a listed subsidiary 
as referred above, the prior approval of the shareholders of the listed subsidiary s hall 
suffice.] 
[Provided 226[further] that the requirements specified under this sub -regulation shall not 
apply in respect of a resolution plan approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code, 
subject to the event being disclosed to the recognized stock exc hanges within one day of 
the resolution plan being approved 227[:]]228  
 
229[Provided further that the omnibus approval granted by the shareholders for material 
related party transactions in an annual general meeting shall be valid till the date of the 
next annual general meeting held within the timelines prescribed under Section 96 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 or rules, notifications, or circulars issued thereunder from time to 
time: 
 
Provided further that in case of omnibus approvals for material related party transactions, 
granted by shareholders in general meetings other than annual general meeting, the 
validity of such omnibus approvals shall not exceed one year f rom the date of such 
approval.] 
 
(5) The provisions of sub-regulations (2), (3) and (4) shall not be applicable in the following 
cases: 
(a) transactions entered into between two 230[public sector] companies; 
(b) transactions entered into between a holding company and its wholly owned subsidiary 
                                                           
222 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) ( Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. 
223 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirem ents) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. 
224 Substituted for the words “the related parties shall abstain from voting on” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018.  
225 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. 
226 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) ( Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. 
227 Substituted for the symbol “; ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.12.2025.  
228 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 31.05.2018. 
229 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.12.2025. 
230 Substituted for the word “government” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 44]
44 
 
whose accounts are consolidated with such holding company and placed before the 
shareholders at the general meeting for approval. 
231[(c) transactions entered into between two wholly -owned subsidiaries of the listed 
holding company, whose accounts are consolidated with such holding company and placed 
before the shareholders at the general meeting for approval.] 
232[(d) transactions which are in the nature of payment of statutory dues, statutory fees or  
statutory charges entered into between an entity on one hand and the Central Government 
or any State Government or any combination thereof on the other hand. 
(e) transactions entered into between a public sector company on one hand and the Central 
Government or any State Government or any combination thereof on the other hand.] 
 
233[Explanation: For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that the term ‘holding company’ 
used in clause (b) of this sub -regulation refers to and shall be deemed to have always 
referred to a listed holding company.] 
 
234[***] 
 
(6) The provisions of this regulation shall be applicable to all prospective transactions.  
 
(7) 235[***] 
 
(8) All existing material related party contracts or arrangements entered into prior to the date 
of notification of these regulations and which may continue beyond such date shall be 
placed for approval of the shareholders in the first General Meeting subseque nt to 
notification of these regulations.  
 
236[(9) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchanges disclosures of related party 
transactions in the format as specified by the Board from time to time, and publish the same 
on its website: 
Provided that a ‘high value debt listed entity’ shall submit such disclosures along with its 
standalone financial results for the half year: 
                                                           
231 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. 
232 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
233 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Re quirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.12.2025. 
234 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the Explanation read as under-  
“Explanation. - For the purpose of clause (a), "government company(ies)" means Government company 
as defined in sub-section (45) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013.” 
235 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. Prior to the omission, sub-regulation (7) read as under: 
“(7) For the purpose of this regulation, all entities falling under the defi nition of related parties shall not vote to 
approve the relevant transaction irrespective of whether the entity is a party to the particular transaction or not.” 
236 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (9) read as under: 
“(9) The listed entity shall submit within 30 days from the date of publication of its standalone and 
consolidated financial results for the half year, disclosures of related party transactions on a consolida ted 
basis, in the format specified in the relevant accounting standards for annual results to the stock exchanges 
and publish the same on its website. 
 Provided that a ‘high value debt listed entity’ shall submit such disclosures along with its standalone financial 
results for the half year;”

[Page 45]
45 
 
 
Provided further that the listed entity shall make such disclosures every six months within 
fifteen days from the date of publication of its standalone and consolidated financial results:  
 
Provided further that the listed entity shall make such disclosures every six months on the 
date of publication of its standalone and consolidated financial results with effect from 
April 1, 2023 237[:]] 
 
238[Provided further that the remuneration and sitting fees paid by the listed entity or its  
subsidiary to its director, key managerial personnel or senior management, except who is  
part of promoter or promoter group, shall not require disclosure und er this sub-regulation 
provided that the same is not material in terms of the provisions of sub -regulation (1) of  
this regulation.] 
 
Corporate governance requirements with respect to subsidiary of listed entity. 
24. 239[(1) At least one independent director on the board of directors of the listed entity shall 
be a director on the board of directors of an unlisted material subsidiary, whether 
incorporated in India or not. 
Explanation - For the purposes of this provision, notwithstanding anything to the 
contrary contained in regulation 16, the term “material subsidiary” shall mean a 
subsidiary, whose 240[turnover] or net worth exceeds twenty percent of the consolidated 
241[turnover] or net worth respectively, of the listed entity and its subsidiaries in the 
immediately preceding accounting year.] 
 
(2) The audit committee of the listed entity shall also review the financial statements, in 
particular, the investments made by the unlisted subsidiary. 
 
(3) The minutes of the meetings of the board of directors of the unlisted subsidiary shall be 
placed at the meeting of the board of directors of the listed entity.  
 
(4) The management of the unlisted subsidiary shall periodically bring to the noti ce of the 
board of directors of the listed entity, a statement of all significant transactions and 
arrangements entered into by the unlisted subsidiary.  
Explanation.- For the purpose of this regulation, the term “significant transaction or 
arrangement” sh all mean any individual transaction or arrangement that exceeds or is 
likely to exceed ten percent of the total revenues or total expenses or total assets or total 
                                                           
237 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
238 Inserted by the Securities and E xchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
239 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows: 
“(1) At least one independent director on the board of directors of the listed entity shall be a director on the 
board of directors of an unlisted material subsidiary, incorporated in India.” 
240 Substituted for the word “income” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
241 Substituted for the word “income” by the Securities and Exchange Board o f India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 46]
46 
 
liabilities, as the case may be, of the unlisted 242[***] subsidiary for the immediately 
preceding accounting year. 
 
(5) A listed entity shall not dispose of shares in its material subsidiary resulting in reduction 
of its shareholding (either on its own or together with other subsidiaries) to less than 243[or 
equal to] fifty percent or cease the exercise of control over the subsidiary without passing 
a special resolution in its General Meeting except in cases where such divestment is made 
under a scheme of arrangement duly approved by a Court/Tribunal[, or under a resolution 
plan duly approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code and such an event is disclosed 
to the recognized stock exchanges within one day of the resolution plan being 
approved]244.  
 
(6) Selling, disposing and leasing of assets amounting to more than twenty percent of the 
assets of the material subsidiary on an aggregate basis during a financial year shall require 
prior approval of shareholders by way of special resolution, unless the sale/disposal/lease 
is made under a scheme of arrangement duly approved by a Court/Tribunal[, or under a 
resolution plan duly approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code and such an event 
is disclosed to the recognized stock exchanges within one day of the resolution plan being 
approved]245 246[:] 
 
247[Nothing contained in this sub -regulation shall be applicable if such sale, disposal or 
lease of assets is between two wholly-owned subsidiaries of the listed entity.]  
 
(7) Where a listed entity has a listed subsidiary, which is itself a holding company, the  
provisions of this regulation shall apply to the listed subsidiary in so far as its subsidiaries 
are concerned. 
 
248[Secretarial Audit 249{and Secretarial Compliance Report}. 
 24A. 250[(1) (a) Every listed entity and its material unlisted subsidiaries incorporated in India 
shall undertake  Secretarial Audit by a Secretarial Auditor who shall be a Peer Reviewed 
                                                           
242 Word “material” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
243 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
244 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 31.05.2018. 
245 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 31.05.2018. 
246 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
247 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
248 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. the date specified in the provision. 
249 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
250 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  Prior to the substitution, the sub -regulation read as 
under- 
“(1) Every listed entity and its material u nlisted subsidiaries incorporated in India shall undertake secretarial 
audit and shall annex a secretarial audit report given by a company secretary in practice, in such form as specified, 
with the annual report of the listed entity.”

[Page 47]
47 
 
Company Secretary and shall annex a Secretarial Audit Report in such form as specified, with 
the annual report of the listed entity. 
 
Explanation: 
 
(i) “Secretarial Auditor” means a Company Secretary in Prac tice or a firm of Company  
Secretary(ies) in practice appointed to conduct the Secretarial Audit. 
 
(ii) “Peer Reviewed Company Secretary” means a Company Secretary in practice, who is 
either practicing individually or as a sole proprietor or as a partner of  a Peer Reviewed 
Practice Unit, holding a valid certificate of peer review issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India. 
 
(b) On the basis of recommendation of board of directors, a listed entity shall appoint or re -
appoint: 
 
(i) an individual as Secretarial Auditor for not more than one term of five consecutive years; 
or 
 
(ii) a Secretarial Audit firm as Secretarial Auditor for not more than two terms of five 
consecutive years, 
 
with the approval of its shareholders in its Annual General Meeting: 
 
Provided that- 
 
(i) an individual Secretarial Auditor who has completed his or her term under sub -clause 
(i) of this clause shall not be eligible for re-appointment as Secretarial Auditor in the same 
entity for five years from the completion of his or her term; 
(ii) a Secretarial Audit firm which has completed its term under sub -clause (ii) of this 
clause, shall not be eligible for re-appointment as Secretarial Auditor in the same entity for 
five years from the completion of such term: 
 
Provided further that as on the date of appointment no Secretarial Audit firm having a 
common partner or partners to the other Secretarial Audit firm, whose tenure has expired 
in the listed entity  immediately preceding the financial year, shall be appointed as 
Secretarial Auditor of the same listed entity for a period of five years: 
 
Provided further that, nothing contained in these regulations shall prejudice the right of the 
entity to remove Secretarial Auditor with the approval of its shareholders in its Annual 
General Meeting or  the right of the Secretarial Auditor to resign from such office of the 
listed entity. 
 
(c) The casual vacancy arising out of resignation, death or disqualification of a Secretarial 
Auditor shall be filled by the board of directors of the listed entity within a period of three 
months and the secretarial auditor so appointed shall hold office till the conclusion of the 
next annual general meeting.]

[Page 48]
48 
 
251[(1A) Eligibility, Qualifications and Disqualifications of Secretarial Auditor: 
 
(a) A person shall be eligible for appointment as a Secretarial Auditor of the listed entity 
only if such person is a Peer Reviewed Company Secretary and has not incurred any of the 
disqualifications as specified by the Board: 
 
Provided that a firm whereof majority of  partners practising in India are qualified for 
appointment as aforesaid may be appointed by its firm name to be Secretarial Auditor of 
the listed entity. 
 
(b) Where a firm including a limited liability partnership is appointed as Secretarial Auditor 
of the listed entity, only the partners who are Peer Reviewed Company Secretaries shall be 
authorised to act and sign on behalf of the firm. 
 
(c) Where a person appointed as Secretarial Auditor of the listed entity incurs any of the 
disqualifications as specified by the Board, after appointment, such person shall vacate the 
office as Secretarial Auditor and such vacation shall be deemed to be a casual vacancy in 
the office of the Secretarial Auditor. 
 
(1B) Secretarial Auditor not to render certain services: 
 
A Secretarial Auditor appointed under these regulations shall provide to the listed entity 
only such other services as are approved by the board of directors, but which shall not 
include any services as specified by the Board in this behalf. 
 
(1C) With effect from April 1, 2025, every listed entity shall ensure compliance with sub-
regulation (1), (1A) and (1B) for appointment, re -appointment or continuation of the 
Secretarial Auditor of the listed entity: 
 
Provided that any association of the individual or the firm as the Secretarial Auditor of the 
listed entity before March 31, 2025 shall not be considered for the purpose of calculating 
the tenure under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1).] 
 
252[(2) Every listed entity shall submit a secretarial compliance report in such form as 
specified, to stock exchanges, within sixty days from end of each financial year253[:]] 
 
254[Provided that the listed entity shall ensure that with effect from April 1, 2025, the  
Secretarial Compliance Report submitted to the stock exchange(s) on annual basis is  signed 
only by the Secretarial Auditor or by a Peer Reviewed Company Secretary who  satisfies the 
conditions mentioned in sub-regulations (1A) and (1B) of this regulation.] 
 
 
                                                           
251 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
252 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
253 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
254 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Li sting Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 49]
49 
 
Obligations with respect to independent directors.  
25. 255[(1) No person shall be appointed or continue as an alternate director for an 
independent director of a listed entity with effect from October 1, 2018.] 
 
(2) The maximum tenure of independent directors shall be in accordance with the Companies 
Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder, in this regard, from time to time. 
 
256[(2A). The appointment, re -appointment or removal of an independent director of a listed 
entity, shall be subject to the approval of shareholders by way of a special resolution.] 
 
257[Provided that where a special resolution for the appointment of an independent 
director fails to get the requisite majority of votes but the votes cast in favour of the 
resolution exceed the votes cast against the resolution and the votes cast by the public 
shareholders in favour of the resolution exceed the votes cast against the resolution, 
then the appointment of such  an independent director shall be deemed to have been 
made under sub-regulation (2A): 
 
Provided further that an independent director appointed under the first pr oviso shall 
be removed only if the votes cast in favour of the resolution proposing the removal 
exceed the  votes cast against the resolution and the votes cast by the public 
shareholders in favour of the resolution exceed the votes cast against the resolution.] 
 
(3) The independent directors of the listed entity shall hold at least one meeting in a 
258[financial] year, without the presence of non-independent directors and members of the 
management and all the independent directors shall strive to be present at such meeting. 
 
(4) The independent directors in the meeting referred in sub-regulation (3) shall, inter alia- 
(a) review the performance of non -independent directors and the board of directors as a 
whole; 
(b) review the performance of the chairperson of the listed entity, taking into account the 
views of executive directors and non-executive directors; 
(c) assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the 
management of the listed entity and the board of directors that is necessary for the 
board of directors to effectively and reasonably perform their duties. 
 
(5) An independent director shall be held liable, only in respect of such acts of omission or 
commission by the listed entity which had occurred with his 259[/her] knowledge, 
                                                           
255 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. the date specified in the provision. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows: 
“(1) A person shall not serve as an independent director in more than seven listed entities:  
Provided that any person who is serving as a whole time director in any listed entity shall serve as a n 
independent director in not more than three listed entities.” 
256 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
257 Inserted by the Securities and Exchan ge Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022. 
258 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
259 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.

[Page 50]
50 
 
attributable thro ugh processes of board of directors, and with his 260[/her] consent or 
connivance or where he 261[/she] had not acted diligently with respect to the provisions 
contained in these regulations.  
 
(6) 262[***] 
  
(7) The listed entity shall familiarise the independent direc tors through various programmes 
about the listed entity, including the following:  
(a) nature of the industry in which the listed entity operates;  
(b) business model of the listed entity;  
(c) roles, rights, responsibilities of independent directors; and  
(d) any other relevant information. 
 
263[(8) Every independent director shall, at the first meeting of the board in which he 
participates as a director and thereafter at the first meeting of the board in every financial year 
or whenever there is any change in the circumstances which may affect his status as an 
independent director, submit  a declaration that he meets the criteria of independence as 
provided in clause (b) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 16 and that he is not aware of any 
circumstance or situation, which exist or may be reasonably anticipated, that could impair or 
impact his ability to discharge his duties with an objective independent judgment and without 
any external influence. 
 
(9) The board of directors of the listed entity shall take on record  the declaration and 
confirmation submitted by the independent director under sub-regulation (8) after undertaking 
due assessment of the veracity of the same.  
 
(10) 264[The]  top 265{1000} listed entities by market capitalization 266[***] shall undertake 
Directors and Officers insurance (‘D and O insurance’) for all their independent directors of 
such quantum and for such risks as may be determined by its board of directors.] 
 
                                                           
260 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
261 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
262 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as under- 
“(6)An independent director who resigns or is removed from the board of directors of the listed entity 
shall be replaced by a new independent director by listed entity at the earliest but not later than three 
months from the date of such vacancy: 
Provided that where the listed entity fulfils the requirement of independent directors in its board of 
directors without filling the vacancy created by such resignation or removal,  the requirement of 
replacement by a new independent director shall not apply.” 
263 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019 or the date specified in the provisions.  
264 Substituted for the words “ With effect from {January 1, 2022}, the ” by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024. 
265 Substituted for the number “ 500” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
266 The words “ calculated as on March 31 of the preceding financial year, ” omitted by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 
w.e.f. 31.12.2024

[Page 51]
51 
 
267[(11). No independent director , who resigns from a listed entity , shall be appointed as an 
executive / whole time director on the board of the listed entity, its holding, subsidiary or 
associate company or on the board of a company belonging to its promoter group, unless a 
period of one year has elapsed from the date of resignation as an independent director.] 
 
268[(12) A ‘high value debt listed entity’ shall undertake Directors and Officers insurance (D 
and O insurance) for all its independent directors for such sum assured and for such risks as 
may be determined by its board of directors.] 
 
269[Obligations with respect to employees including senior management, 270[key 
managerial personnel], directors and promoters.] 
26. (1) A director shall not be a member in more than ten committees or act as chairperson 
of more than five committees across all listed entities in which he 271[/she] is a director 
which shall be determined as follows: 
(a) the limit of the committees on which a director may  serve in all public limited 
companies, whether listed or not, shall be included and all other companies 
including private limited companies, foreign companies 272[***] and companies 
under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 shall be excluded; 
(b) for the purpose of determination of limit, chairpersonship and membership of the 
audit committee and the Stak eholders' Relationship Committee alone shall be 
considered.  
 
(2) Every director shall inform the listed entity about the committee positions he or she 
occupies in other listed entities and notify changes as and when they take place. 
 
(3) All members of the board of directors and senior management personnel shall affirm 
compliance with the code of conduct of board of directors and senior management on an 
annual basis.  
 
(4)  273[***] 
 
                                                           
267 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
268 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
269 Substituted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f. 04.01.2017. Prior to substitution, the title read as follows- 
“Obligations with respect to directors and senior management” 
270 Substituted for the words “key managerial persons” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 17.1.2023 
271 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
272 Words “ ,‘high value debt listed entities ’” inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021, omitted by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 
28.03.2025.  
273 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. Prior to the omission, sub-regulation (4) read as follows: 
“Non-executive directors shall disclose their shareholding, held either by them or on a beneficial basis 
for any other persons in the listed entity in which they are proposed to be appointed as directors, in the 
notice to the general meeting called for appointment of such director.”

[Page 52]
52 
 
(5) Senior management shall make disclosures to the board of directors relating to all material, 
financial and commercial transactions, where they have personal interest that may have a 
potential conflict with the interest of the listed entity at large. 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-regulation, conflict of interest relates to dealing 
in the shares of listed entity, commercial dealings with bodies, which have shareholding 
of management and their relatives etc. 
 
274[(6) No employee including key managerial personnel or director or promoter of a listed 
entity shall enter into any agreement for himself  275[/herself] or on behalf of any other 
person, with any shareholder or any other third party with regard to compensation or profit 
sharing in connection with dealin gs in the securities of such listed entity, unless prior 
approval for the same has been obtained from the Board of Directors as well as public 
shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution: 
 
276[Provided that all interested persons involved in the transaction covered under the 
agreement shall abstain from voting in the general meeting:] 
 
Provided further that 277[any such subsisting agreement that  continues subsequent to the 
listing] shall be placed for approval before the Board of Directors 278[***]: 
 
Provided further that if the Board of Directors approve such agreement, the same shall be 
placed before the public shareholders for approval by way of an ordinary resolution in the 
279[first general meeting held after listing and all interested persons invol ved in the 
transaction covered under the agreement shall abstain from voting in the general meeting]:  
 
280[***] 
 
Explanation - For the purposes of this sub -regulation, ‘interested person’ shall mean any 
person holding voting rights in the listed entity and who is in any manner, whether directly 
or indirectly, interested in an agreement or proposed agreement, entered into or to be 
entered into by such a person or by any employee or key managerial personnel or director 
                                                           
274 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
w.e.f. 04.01.2017. 
275 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
276 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the substitution, the proviso read as under- 
“Provided that such agreement, if any, whether subsisting or expired, entered during the preceding three years 
from the date of coming in to force of this sub -regulation, shall be disclosed to the stock exch anges for public 
dissemination:” 
277 Substituted for the words and symbols “ subsisting agreement, if any, as on the date of coming into force of 
this sub -regulation” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024 . 
278 The words “ in the forthcoming Board meeting ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024 . 
279 Substituted for the words “forthcoming general meeting” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
280 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the Omission, the proviso read as under- 
“Provided further that all interested persons involved in the transaction covered under the agreement shall abstain 
from voting in the general meeting.”

[Page 53]
53 
 
or promoter of such listed entity with any shareholder or any other third party with respect 
to compensation or profit sharing in connection with the securities of such listed entity.] 
 
281[Vacancies in respect of certain Key Managerial Personnel  
26A. (1) Any vacancy in the office of Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director, Whole 
Time Director or Manager shall be filled by the listed entity at the earliest and in any case 
not later than three months from the date of such vacancy:  
 
282 [Provided that where the listed entity is required to o btain approval of regulatory,  
government or statutory authorities to fill up such vacancies, then the vacancies shall be  
filled up by the listed entity at the earliest and in any case not later than six months from  
the date of vacancy;] 
 
Provided 283[further] that the listed entity shall not fill such vacancy by appointing a person 
in interim capacity, unless such appointment is made in accordance with the laws 
applicable in case of a fresh appointment to such office and the obligations under such 
laws are made applicable to such person. 
 
(2) Any vacancy in the office of the Chief Financial Officer shall be filled by the listed 
entity at the earliest and in any case not later than three months from the date of such 
vacancy:  
 
284 [Provided that where the listed entity is required to obtain approval of regulatory,  
government or statutory authorities to fill up such vacancy, then the vacancy shall be filled 
up by the listed entity at the earliest and in any case not later than six months from the date 
of vacancy;] 
 
Provided 285[further] that the listed entity shall not fill such vacancy by appointing a person 
in interim capacity, unless such appointment is made in accordance with the laws 
applicable in case of a fresh appointment to such office and the obligations und er such 
laws are made applicable to such person.] 
 
286[(3) Any vacancy in the office of Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director, Whole 
Time Director or Manager or Chief Financial Officer of such listed entity in respect of 
which a resolution plan under section 31 of the Insolvency Code has been approved, shall 
be filled within a period of three months of such approval: 
 
Provided that, in the interim, such listed entity shall have not less than one full-time key 
managerial personnel managing its day-to-day affairs.] 
                                                           
281 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023.  
282 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.5.2024. 
283 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of In dia (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.5.2024. 
284 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.5.2024. 
285 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.5.2024. 
286 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Require ments) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 54]
54 
 
 
Other corporate governance requirements. 
27. (1) The listed entity may, at its discretion, comply with requirements as specified in  
Part E of Schedule II. 
 
(2) 287[(a) The listed entity shall submit, to the recognised stock exchange(s), a quarterly 
compliance report on corporate governance in the format and within the timelines, as 
may be specified by the  Board from time to time. ]. 
 
(b) 288[***] 
 
289[(ba) Details of cyber security incidents or breaches or loss of data or documents 
shall be disclosed along with the report mentioned in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2), 
as may be specified.] 
 
(c) The report mentioned in clause (a) of sub -regulation (2) shall be signed either by the 
compliance officer or the chief executive officer of the listed entity.  
 
In-principle approval of recognized stock exchange(s). 
28. (1) The listed entity, before issuing securities, shall obtain an ‘in -principle’ approval 
from recognised stock exchange(s) in the following manner:  
(a)  where the securities are listed only on recognised stock ex change(s) having 
nationwide trading terminals, from all such stock exchange(s); 
 
(b)  where the securities are not listed on any recognised stock exchange having  
nationwide trading terminals, from all the stock exchange(s) in which the securities 
of the issuer are proposed to be listed; 
 
(c)  where the securities are listed on recognised stock exchange(s) having nationwide 
trading terminals as well as on the recognised stock exchange(s) not having 
nationwide trading terminals, from all recognised stock exchange(s) having 
nationwide trading terminals: 
 
(2)  The requirement of obtaining in -principle approval from recognised stock exchange(s), 
shall not be applicable for securities issued pursuant to the scheme of arrangement for 
which the listed entity has already obtaine d No-Objection Letter from recognised stock 
exchange(s) in accordance with regulation 37.  
 
 
                                                           
287 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as under-  
“(a) The listed entity shall submit a quarterly compliance report on corporate governance in the format as 
specified by the Board from time to time to the recognised stock exchange(s) within twenty one days from  the 
end of each quarter.” 
288 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the clause read as under- 
“(b) Details of all material transactions with related parties shall be disclosed along with the report mentioned in 
clause (a) of sub-regulation (2).” 
289 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023.

[Page 55]
55 
 
Prior Intimations. 
29. (1) The listed entity shall give prior intimation 290[of at least two working days in 
advance, excluding the date of the intimation and date of the meeting,] to stock exchange 
about the meeting of the board of directors in which any of the following proposals is 
due to be considered:  
 
(a) financial results viz. quarterly, half yearly, or annual, as the case may be; 
 
(b) proposal for buyback of securities; 
 
(c) proposal for voluntary delisting by the listed entity from the stock exchange(s); 
 
(d) fund raising by way of  291[issue of securities (excluding security receipts, 
securitized debt instruments or money market instruments regulated by the Reserve 
Bank of India), through]  further public offer, rights issue, American Depository 
Receipts/Global Depository Receipts/Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds, 
qualified institutions placement, debt issue, preferential issue or any other method 
and for determination of issue price: 
 
 Provided that intimation shall also be given in case of any annual general  meeting 
or extraordinary general meeting or postal ballot that is proposed to be held for 
obtaining shareholder approval for further fund raising indicating type of issuance.  
 
292[Provided further that intimation for determination of issue price in a qualif ied 
institutions placement is not required if such placement is done in accordance with the 
provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and  
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018.] 
 
(e) declaration/ recommendation of dividend, issue of convertible securities including 
convertible debentures or of debentures carrying a right to subscribe to equity 
shares or the passing over of dividend.  
 
(f) the proposal for declaration of bonus securities293[***]: 
 
294 [(g) any alteration in the form or nature of any of its securities that are listed on the stock 
exchange or in the rights or privileges of the holders thereof; 
 
(h) any alteration in the date on which, the interest on debentures or bonds, or the  
redemption amount of redeemable shares or of debentures or bonds, shall be payable.] 
 
                                                           
290 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.5.2024. 
291 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.5.2024. 
292 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.5.2024. 
293 The words “where such proposal is communicated to the board of directors of the listed entity as part of the 
agenda papers” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.  
294 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.5.2024.

[Page 56]
56 
 
295[***]  
 
 
(2) 296[ The intimation required under sub -regulation (1) shall mention the date of such 
meeting of board of directors.] 
 
297 [***] 
 
Disclosure of events or information.  
30. (1) Every listed entity shall make disclosures of any events or information which, 
in the opinion of the board of directors of the listed company, is material.  
 
(2) Events specified in Para A of Part A of Schedule III are deemed to be material 
events and listed entity shall make disclosure of such events.  
 
(3) The listed entity shall make disclosure of events specified in Para B of Part A of 
Schedule III, based on application of the guidelines for materiality, as specified in 
sub-regulation (4).  
 
(4) (i)  The listed entity shall consider the following criteria for determination of 
materiality of events/ information:  
(a)the omission of an event or information, which is likely to result in 
discontinuity or  alteration of event or information already available publicly; 
or  
(b)the omission of an event or information is likely to result in significant 
market reaction if the said omission came to light at a later date;  298[or] 
299[(c) the omission of an event or inf ormation, whose value or the expected 
impact in terms of value, exceeds the lower of the following:  
                                                           
295 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.10.2018. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as follows:  
“Provided that in case the declaration of bonus by the listed entity is not on the agenda of the  meeting of board 
of directors, prior intimation is not required to be given to the stock exchange(s).”  
296 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05.2024. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as follows:  
“(2) The intimation required under sub-regulation (1), shall be given at least two working days in 
advance, excluding the date of the intimation and date of the meeting: 
Provided that intimation regarding item specified in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), to be discussed at 
the meeting of board of directors shall be given at least five days in advance (excluding the date of the 
intimation and date of the meeting), and such intimation shall include the date of such meeting of board 
of directors.” 
297 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05.2024. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (3) read as follows:  
“(2)The listed entity shall give intimation to the stock exchange(s) at least eleven working days before 
any of the following proposal is placed before the board of directors -  
(a)any alteration in the form or nature of any of its securities that are listed on the stock exchange or 
in the rights or privileges of the holders thereof.  
(b)any alteration in the date on which, the interest on debentures or bonds, or the redemption amount 
of redeemable shares or of debentures or bonds, shall be payable..” 
298 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosu re Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
299 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendm ent) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15 .7.2023. Prior to the substi tution, the sub -clause read as 
follows:

[Page 57]
57 
 
(1) two percent of turnover, as per the last audited consolidated financial 
statements of the listed entity;  
(2) two percent of net worth, as per the last audited consolidated financial 
statements of the listed entity, except in case the arithmetic value of 
the net worth is negative;  
(3) five percent of the average of absolute value of profit or loss after tax, 
as per the last three audited consolidated fina ncial statements of the 
listed entity ;] 
300[(d) In case where the criteria specified in sub -clauses (a), (b) and (c) is not 
applicable, an event or information may be treated as being material if in the 
opinion of the board of directors of the listed entity,  the event or information 
is considered material:  
 
Provided that any continuing event or information which becomes material 
pursuant to notification of these amendment regulations shall be disclosed by 
the listed entity within thirty days from the date of coming into effect of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board  of India (Listing Obligations a nd Disclosure 
Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023.] 
 
(ii) The listed entity shall frame a policy for determination of mat eriality, based 
on criteria specified in this sub -regulation, duly approved by its board of 
directors, which shall be disclosed on its website.  
 
301[Provided that such a policy for determination of materiality shall not dilute 
any requirement specified unde r the provisions of these regulations:  
 
Provided further that such a policy for determination of materiality shall assist 
the relevant employees of the listed entity in identifying any potential material 
event or information and reporting the same to the authorized Key Managerial 
Personnel, in terms of sub -regulation (5), for determining the materiality of the 
said event or information and for making the necessary disclo sures to the stock 
exchange(s).]  
 
(5) The board of directors of the listed entity shall  authorize one or more Key 
Managerial Personnel for the purpose of determining materiality of an event or 
information and for the purpose of making disclosures to stock exchange(s) under 
this regulation and the contact details of such personnel shall be al so disclosed to 
the stock exchange(s) and as well as on the listed entity's website.  
 
                                                           
“(c)In case where the criteria specified in sub-clauses (a) and (b) are not applicable, an event/information may 
be treated as being material if in the opinion of the board of directors of listed entity, the event /  information is 
considered material.” 
300 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
301 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023.

[Page 58]
58 
 
302[(6) The listed entity shall first disclose to the stock exchange(s) all events or information 
which are material in terms of the provisions of this regulation as soon as reasonably 
possible and in any case not later than the following: 
(i) thirty minutes from the closure of the meeting of the board of directors in which 
the decision pertaining to the event or information has been taken 303[:] 
 304[Provided that in case the meeting of the board of directors closes after normal 
trading hours of that day but more than three hours before the beginning of the 
normal trading hours of the next trading  day, the listed entity shall disclose the 
decision pert aining to the event or information, within three  hours from the 
closure of the board meeting: 
 Provided further that in case the meeting of the board of directors is being held 
for more than one  day, the financial results shall be disclosed within thirty 
minutes or three hours, as applicable, from  closure of such meeting for the day 
on which it has been considered.] 
(ii) twelve hours from the occurrence of the event or information, in case the event 
or information is emanating from within the listed entity;  
(iii) twenty four hours from the occurrence of the event or information, in case the 
event or information is not emanating from within the listed entity:  
 305[Provided that if all the relevant information, in respect of claims which are 
made against the listed entity under any litigation or dispute, other than tax 
litigation or dispute, in terms of sub -paragraph 8  of paragraph B of Part A of 
Schedule III, is maintained in the structured digital database of the listed  entity 
in terms of provisions of the S ecurities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider  Trading) Regulations, 2015, the disclosure with respect 
to such claims shall be made to the stock  exchange(s) within seventy -two 
hours of receipt of t he notice by the listed entity:]  
 
Provided 306[further] that disclosure with respect to events for which timelines 
have been specified in Part A of Schedule III shall be made within such timelines:  
 
Provided further that in case the disclosure is made after the timelines specified 
under this regulatio n, the listed entity shall, along with such disclosure provide the 
explanation for the delay .] 
 
                                                           
302 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15 .7.2023. Prior to the substitution, the sub -regulation read as 
follows: 
“(6) The listed entity shall first disclose to stock exchange(s) of all events, as specified in Part A of 
Schedule III, or information as soon as reasonably possible and not later than twenty four hours from 
the occurrence of event or information:  
Provided that in case the disclosure is made after twenty four hours of occurrence of the event or 
information, the listed entity shall, along with such disclosures provide explanation for delay:  
Provided further that disclosure with respect to events specified in sub -para 4 of Para A of Part A of 
Schedule III shall be made within [the timelines specified therein.” 
303 Substituted for the symbol “;” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
304 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosu re Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
305 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
306 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 59]
59 
 
307[Explanation: Normal trading hours shall mean time period for which the 
recognized stock  exchanges are open  for trading for all investors.]  
 
(7) The listed entity shall, with respect to disclosures referred to in this regulation, 
make disclosures updating material developments on a regular basis, till such time 
the event is resolved/closed, with relevant explanations.   
 
(8) The listed entity shall disclose on  its website all such events or information 
which has been disclosed to stock exchange(s) under this regulation , and such 
disclosures shall be hosted on the website of the listed entity for a minimum period 
of five years and thereafter as per the archival  policy of the listed entity, as disclosed 
on its website.  
 
(9) The listed entity shall disclose all events or information with respect to 
subsidiaries which are material for the listed entity.  
 
(10) The listed entity shall provide specific and adequate reply to all queries raised 
by stock exchange(s) with respect to any events or information:  
Provided that the stock exchange(s) shall disseminate information and clarification 
as soon as reasonably practicable.  
 
(11) The listed entity may on its 308 [***] initiative also, confirm or deny any 
reported event or information to stock exchange(s)  309[:]  
 
310[Provided that the top 100 listed entities 311 [***] and thereafter the top 250 listed 
entities 312[,with effect from the date  313 [***]  specified by the Board, ] shall 
confirm, deny or clarify  314[, upon the material price movement as may  be specified 
by the stock exchanges, ] any reported event or information in the mainstream media 
which is not general in nature and which indicates that 315[rumour] of an impending 
                                                           
307 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
308 The word “own” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05.2024. 
309 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023 for the symbol “.”. 
310 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
311 The symbols, words and numerals “ (with effect from October 1, 2023)”  omitted by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulati ons, 
2023 w.e.f 01.10.2023. 
312 Substituted for the symbols, words and numerals “ (with effect from April 1, 2024)” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2023 w.e.f 01.10.2023. 
313 The words “ as may be ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05.2024.  
314 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05.2024. 
315 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05.2024 for the word “rumours”.

[Page 60]
60 
 
specific 316 [***] event or information 317[is] circulating amongst the investing 
public, as soon as reasonably possible 318[but in any case] not later than twenty four 
hours from the  319[trigger of material price movement] : 
Provided further that if the listed entity confirms the reported event or information, 
it shall also provide the current stage of such event or information  320[:] 
321[Provided further that when the listed entity confirms within twenty  four hours 
from the trigger of material price m ovement, any reported event or information on 
which pricing norms provided under  Chapter V or Chapter VI of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and  Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018 or pricing norms provided under Regulati on 8 or Regulation 9 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and  
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 or pricing norms provided under Regulation 19 or 
Regulation 22B of  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy -back o f 
Securities) Regulations, 2018 or any other  pricing norms specified by the Board or 
the stock exchanges are applicable, then the effect on the  price of the equity shares 
of the listed entity due to the material price movement and confirmation of  the 
reported event or information may be excluded for calculation of the price for that 
transaction as  per the framework as may be specified by  the Board.]  
322[***] 
323[(11A) The promoter, director, key managerial personnel or senior management 
of a listed entity  shall provide adequate, accurate and timely response to queries 
raised or explanation sought by the  listed entity in order to ensure compliance with 
the requirements under sub -regulation 11 of this regulation and the listed entity shall 
disseminate the res ponse received from such individual(s)  promptly to th e stock 
exchanges.]  
 
                                                           
316 The word “ material” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05.2024.  
317 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05 .2024 for the words “in terms of the provisions of this regulation 
are”. 
318 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05.2024 for the word “and”. 
319 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05.2024 for the words “reporting of the event or information”. 
320 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05.2024 for the symbol “.”. 
321 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05.2024. 
322 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024. Prior to its omission, the Explanation read as follows:  
“Explanation – The top 100 and 250 listed entities shall be determined on the basis of market 
capitalization, as at the end of the immediately preceding financial year. ” 
323 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 17.05.2024.

[Page 61]
61 
 
(12) In case where an event occurs or an information is available with the listed 
entity, which has not been indicated in Para A or B of Part A of Schedule III, but 
which may have ma terial effect on it, the  listed entity is required to make adequate 
disclosures in regard thereof.  
 
 324[(13) In case an event or information is required to be disclosed by the listed entity 
in terms of the provisions of this regulation, pursuant to the rec eipt of a 
communication from any regulatory, statutory, enforcement or judicial authority, 
the listed entity shall disclose such communication, along with the event or 
information, unless disclosure of such communication is prohibited by such 
authority.]  
 
325[Disclosure requirements for certain types of agreemen ts binding listed 
entities:  
30A. (1) All the shareholders, promoters, promoter group entities, related parties, 
directors, key managerial personnel and employees of a listed entity or of its holding, 
subsidiary and associate company, who are parties to the agreements specified in 
clause 5A of para A of part A of schedule III to these regulations, shall inform the 
listed entity about the agreement to which such a listed entity is not a party, within two 
working days of entering into such agreements or signing an agreement to enter into 
such agreements: 
 
Provided that for the agreements that subsist as on the date of notification of clause 5A 
to para A of part A of schedule III, the parties to the agreements shall inform the listed 
entity, about the agreement to which such a listed entity is not a party and the listed 
entity shall in turn disclose all such subsisting agreements to the Stock Exchanges and 
on its website within the timelines as specified by the Board. 
 
(2) The listed entity shall disclose the number of agreements that subsist as on the date 
of notification of clause 5A to para A of part A of schedule III, their salient features, 
including the link to the webpage where the 326[***] details of such agreements are 
available, in the Annual Report for the financial year 2022-23 or for the financial year 
2023-24.] 
 
 
 
                                                           
324 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
325 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
 
326 The word “complete” omitted by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024 .

[Page 62]
62 
 
 
Holding of specified securities and shareholding pattern.  
31. (1) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange(s) a statement showing holding 
of securities and shareholding pattern separately  for each class of securities, in the 
format specified by the Board from time to time within the following timelines -  
(a) one day prior to listing of its securities on the stock exchange(s); 
(b) on a quarterly basis, within twenty one days from the end of each quarter; and,  
(c) within ten days of any capital restructuring of the listed entity resulting in a change 
exceeding two per cent of the total paid-up share capital:  
Provided that in case of listed entities which have listed their specified securities on SME 
Exchange, the above statements shall be submitted on a half yearly basis within twenty 
one days from the end of each half year.  
 
(2)  The listed entity shall ensure that hundred pe rcent of shareholding of promoter(s) 
and promoter group is in dematerialized form and the same is maintained on a 
continuous basis in the manner as specified by the Board. 
 
(3) The listed entity shall comply with circulars or directions issued by the Board from 
time to time with respect to maintenance of shareholding in dematerialized form.  
 
327[(4) All entities falling under promoter and promoter group shall be disclosed 
separately in the shareholding pattern appearing on the website of all stock exchanges 
having nationwide trading terminals where the specified securities of the entity are 
listed, in accordance with the formats specified by the Board.] 
 
328[Conditions for re-classification of any person as promoter / public  
                                                           
327 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 16.11.2018 
328 Substituted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 16.11.2018. Prior to this, the regulations read as:  
“Disclosure of Class of shareholders and Conditions for Reclassification.  
31A. (1) All entities falling under promoter and promoter group shall be disclosed separately in the shareholding 
pattern appearing on the website  of all stock exchanges having nationwide trading terminals where the 
specified securities of the entity are listed, in accordance with the formats specified by SEBI.  
 
(2) The stock exchange, specified in sub -regulation (1), shall allow modification or re classification of the 
status of the shareholders, only upon receipt of a request from the concerned listed entity or the concerned 
shareholders along with all relevant evidence and on being satisfied with the compliance of conditions 
mentioned in this regulation. 
 
(3) In case of entities listed on more than one stock exchange, the concerned stock exchanges shall jointly 
decide on the application of the entity/ shareholders, as specified in sub-regulation(2).  
 
(4) In case of transmission/succession/inheritance, the inheritor shall be classified as promoter. 
  
(5) When a new promoter replaces the previous promoter subsequent to an open offer or in any other manner, 
re-classification may be permitted subject to approval of shareholders in the general meeting and compliance 
of the following conditions:  
 
(a) Such promoter along with the promoter group and the Persons Acting in Concert shall not hold more 
than ten per cent of the paid-up equity capital of the entity. 
(b) Such promoter shall not continue to have a ny special rights through formal or informal arrangements. 
All shareholding agreements granting special rights to such entities shall be terminated.

[Page 63]
63 
 
31A. (1) For the purpose of this regulation: 
(a) “promoter(s) seeking re-classification” shall mean all such promoters/persons 
belonging to the promoter group seeking re-classification of status as public.  
(b) “persons related to the promoter(s) seeking re-classification” shall mean such 
persons with respect to that promoter(s) seeking re -classification who fall 
under sub-clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv) of clause (pp) of sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 2 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018. 
 
(2) 329[***]  
                                                           
(c) Such promoters and their relatives shall not act as key managerial person for a period of more than three 
years from the date of shareholders’ approval: 
Provided that the resolution of the said shareholders' meeting must specifically grant approval for such 
promoter to act as key managerial person.  
 
(6) Where an entity becomes professionally managed and do es not have any identifiable promoter the 
existing promoters may be re -classified as public shareholders subject to approval of the shareholders in a 
general meeting.  
Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-regulation an entity may be considered as professionally managed, 
if-  
(i) No person or group along with persons acting in concert taken together shall hold more than one 
per cent paid -up equity capital of the entity including any holding of convertibles/outstanding 
warrants/ Depository Receipts:  
Provided that any mutual fund, bank, insurance company, financial institution, foreign portfolio 
investor may individually hold up to ten per cent paid-up equity capital of the entity including any 
holding of convertibles/outstanding warrants/Depository Receipts.  
(ii) The promoters seeking reclassification and their relatives may act as key managerial personnel in 
the entity only subject to shareholders’ approval and for a period not exceeding three years from 
the date of shareholders’ approval. 
(iii) The promoter seeking reclassification along with his promoter group entities and the persons acting 
in concert shall not have any special right through formal or informal arrangements. All 
shareholding agreements granting special rights to such outgoing entities shall be  terminated. 
(7) Without prejudice to sub -regulations (5) and (6), re -classification of promoter as public shareholders 
shall be subject to the following conditions: 
(a) Such promoter shall not, directly or indirectly, exercise control, over the affairs of the  entity.  
(b) Increase in the level of public shareholding pursuant to re -classification of promoter shall not be 
counted towards achieving compliance with minimum public shareholding requirement under rule 
19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, and the provisions of these regulations.  
(c) The event of re -classification shall be disclosed to the stock exchanges as a material event in 
accordance with the provisions of these regulations. 
(d) Board may relax any condition for re -classification in speci fic cases, if it is satisfied about non -
exercise of control by the outgoing promoter or its persons acting in concert.  
(8) If any public shareholder seeks to re-classify itself as promoter, it shall be required to make an open offer 
in accordance with the provisions of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 
2011. 
(9) The provisions of sub-regulations (5), (6) and clause (b) of sub regulation (7) of this regulation shall not 
apply, if re-classification of existing promoter or promoter group of the listed entity is as per the resolution 
plan approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code, subject to the following conditions: 
(i) the existing promoter and promoter group seeking re-classification shall not remain in control of 
the listed entity; and  
(ii) such re -classification along with the underlying rationale shall be disclos ed to the stock 
exchanges within one day of the resolution plan being approved. 
329 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as under-

[Page 64]
64 
 
 
330[(3) Reclassification of status of a promoter 331[, including promoter group, shall 
be subject to] the following conditions:  
(a) 332[Fulfilment of the following requirements: 
(i) the promoter(s) seeking  reclassification shall make a request for 
reclassification to the listed entity along with a rationale for the 
                                                           
“(2) Re-classification of the status of any person as a promoter or public shall be permitted by the stock 
exchanges only upon receipt of an application from the listed entity along with all relevant documents 
subject to compliance with conditions specified in these regulations;  
Provided that in case of entities listed on more than one stock exchange, the concerned stock exchanges 
shall jointly decide on the application.” 
330 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second A mendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (3) and clause (a) read as follows: 
“(3) Re -classification of status of a promoter/ person belonging to promoter group to public shall be 
permitted by the stock exchanges only upon satisfaction of the following conditions: 
(a) an application for re -classification to the stock exchanges has been made by the listed entity 
consequent to the following procedures and not later than thirty days from the date of approval by 
shareholders in general meeting:  
(i) the promoter(s) seeking re-classification shall make a request for re-classification to the listed 
entity which shall include rationale for seeking such re -classification and how the conditions 
specified in clause (b) below are satisfied;  
(ii) the board of directors of the listed entity shall analyze the request and place the same before 
the shareholders in a general meeting for approval along with the views of the board of directors on 
the request:  
 Provided that there shall be a time gap of at least three months but not exceeding six months between 
the date of board meeting and the shareholder’s meeting considering the request of the promoter(s) 
seeking re-classification. 
(iii) the request of the promoter(s) seeking re -classification shall be approved in the general 
meeting by an ordinary resolution in which the promoter(s) seeking re -classification and persons 
related to the promoter(s) seeking re -classification shall not vote to approve such re -classification 
request.” 
331 Substituted for the words “to public shall be permitted by the stock exchanges only upon satisfaction of ” by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
332 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  Prior to the substitution, the sub -regulation read as 
under- 
“(a) an application for reclassification has been made by the listed entity to the stock exchanges within thirty 
days from the date of approval by shareholders in general meeting after ensuring that the following procedural 
requirements have been fulfilled:  
(i) the promoter(s) seeking reclassification has made a request for reclassification to the listed entity along with 
a rationale for the same and a description as to how the conditions specified in clause (b) of sub -regulation (3) 
of this regulation are satisfied;  
(ii) the board of directors of the listed entity has analyzed such request in the immediately next board meeting or 
within three months from the date of receipt of the request from its promoter(s), whichever is earlier and has 
placed the same before the shareholders in  a general meeting for approval along with the views of the board of 
directors on the request: 
Provided that there shall be a time gap of at least one month but not exceeding three months between the dates 
of the board meeting and the shareholders’ meeting  considering the request of the promoter(s) seeking 
reclassification. 
(iii) the request of the promoter(s) seeking reclassification has been approved in the general meeting by an 
ordinary resolution in which the promoter(s) seeking reclassification and the  persons related to him/her/it have 
not voted to approve such reclassification request: 
Provided that the provisions of this sub-clause shall not apply in cases: 
a where the promoter(s) seeking reclassification and persons related to the promoter(s) seeking 
reclassification, together, do not hold more than one percent of the total voting rights in the listed entity;  
b where reclassification is pursuant to a divorce.”

[Page 65]
65 
 
request and a description as to how the conditions specified in clause 
(b) of this sub-regulation (3) are satisfied; 
(ii) the board of directors of t he listed entity shall analyze such request 
which is compliant with the conditions specified in clause (b) of sub-
regulation (3) and provide their views in the immediate next board 
meeting or within two months from the date of receipt of the request 
from its promoter(s), whichever is earlier; 
(iii) the listed entity shall submit an application seeking no -objection of 
the recognized stock exchange for such reclassification request along 
with the views  of the board of directors within five days of 
consideration of the request by the board of directors;  
(iv) the recognized stock exchange shall decide on such application(s) 
within a period of thirty days, excluding the time taken, if any, by 
the listed entity to  respond to queries of stock exchanges, from the 
date of receipt of the application: 
Provided further that in case of entities that are listed on more than 
one recognized stock exchange, the concerned stock exchanges shall 
jointly decide on the application. 
(v) the listed entity shall place the reclassification request before the 
shareholders in a general meeting for approval, within sixty days of 
receipt of no -objection letter from the recognized stock exchange, 
along with the views of the board of directors on the request and the 
no-objection letter received from the recognized stock exchanges; 
(vi) the request of the promoter(s) seeking reclassification shall be 
approved in the general meeting by an ordinary resolution in which 
the promoter(s) seeking  reclassification and the persons related to 
him/her/it shall not vote to approve such reclassification request: 
Provided further that the provisions of this sub-clause shall not 
apply in cases: 
(a) where the promoter(s) seeking reclassification and persons related 
to the promoter(s) seeking reclassification, together, do not hold 
more than one percent of the total voting rights in the listed entity; 
(b) where reclassification is pursuant to a divorce. 
(vii) the listed entity shall notify the stock exchanges within five days of 
obtaining shareholder approval and effect the reclassification: 
Provided that the listed entity shall seek approval of the 
recognized stock exchange for effecting reclassification if there are 
changes in the facts and circumstances of the case after receipt of no-
objection from the recognized stock exchanges.] 
 
(b) the promoter(s) seeking re -classification and persons related to the 
promoter(s) seeking re-classification shall not: 
(i) together, hold more than ten percent of the total voting rights in the 
listed entity;

[Page 66]
66 
 
(ii) exercise control over the affairs of the listed entity d irectly or 
indirectly; 
(iii) have any special rights with respect to the listed entity through 
formal or informal arrangements including through any shareholder 
agreements; 
(iv) be represented on the board of directors (including not having a 
nominee director) of the listed entity; 
(v) act as a 333[key managerial personnel] in the listed entity; 
(vi) be a ‘wilful defaulter’ as per the Reserve Bank of India Guidelines; 
(vii) be a fugitive economic offender. 
 
(c) the listed entity shall: 
(i) be compliant with the requirement for minimum public shareholding 
as required under regulation 38 of these regulations; 
(ii) not have trading in its shares suspended by the stock exchanges; 
(iii) not have any outstanding dues to the Board, the stock exchanges or 
the depositories. 
 
(4) The promoter(s) seeking re-classification, subsequent to re-classification as public, 
shall comply with the following conditions:  
(a) he 334[/she] shall continue to comply with conditions mentioned at sub -
clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (b) of sub-regulation 3 as specified above 
at all times from the date of such re -classification failing which, he shall 
automatically be reclassified as promoter/ persons belonging to promoter 
group, as applicable; 
(b) he 335[/she] shall comply with conditions mentioned at sub-clauses (iv) and 
(v) of clause (b) of sub-regulation 3 for a period of not less than three years 
from the date of such re-classification failing which, he shall automatically 
be reclassified as promoter/ persons belonging to promoter group, as 
applicable. 
 
(5) If any public shareholder seeks to re -classify itself as promoter, it shall 336[***] 
make an open offer in accordance with the provisions of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 
2011 337[ and the intention to get reclassified as a promoter shall be disclosed in the 
letter of offer].  
 
(6) In case of transmission, succession, inheritance and gift of shares held by a 
promoter/ person belonging to the promoter group: 
 
                                                           
333 Substituted for the words “key managerial persons” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 17.1.2023. 
334 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
335 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
336 The words “be required to” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13. 12.2024. 
337 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 67]
67 
 
(a) immediately on such event, the recipient of such shares shall be classified as 
a promoter/ person belonging to the promoter group, as applicable.  
(b) subsequently, in case the recipient classified as a promoter/person belonging 
to the promoter group proposes to seek re-classification of status as public, it 
may do so subject to compliance with conditions specified in sub -regulation 
(3) above.  
(c) in case of death of a promoter/person belonging to the promoter group, such 
person shall automatically cease to be included as a promoter/person 
belonging to the promoter group.  
 
(7) A listed entity shall be considered as ‘listed entity with no promoters’ if due to re-
classification or otherwise, the entity does not have any promoter;  
 
 (8) The following events shall deemed to be material events and shall be disclosed by 
the listed entity to the stock exchanges as soon as reasonably possible and not later 
than twenty four hours from the occurrence of the event:  
(a) receipt of request for re-classification by the listed entity from the promoter(s) 
seeking re-classification;  
(b) 338[outcome] of the board meeting considering such request which would 
include the views of the board on the request;  
(c) submission of applicat ion 339[seeking no -objection or approval of the 
recognized stock exchanges] for re-classification of status as 340[***]public 
by the listed entity to the stock exchanges; 
(d) decision of the stock exchanges on such application as communicated to the 
listed entity; 
341[(e) approval of shareholders on the request of the promoters seeking  
reclassification as public within the timelines specified in sub -regulation (3) of  
regulation 44.] 
 
(9) 342[The provisions of sub -regulations (3), (4) and (8) of this regulation shall not 
apply if reclassification of promoter(s) is as per the resolution plan approved under 
section 31 of the Insolvency Code or pursuant to an order of a Regulator under any 
law subject to the condition that – 
(a) such promoter(s) shall not remain in control of the listed entity; 
(b) disclosure of the resolution plan or order of the Regulator within twenty -
four hours along with an intimation that such promoter(s) would cease to be 
part of the promoter/promoter group of the listed entity.] 
                                                           
338 Substituted for the word “minutes” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
339 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
340 The word and symbol “promoter/” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
341 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of Ind ia (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
342 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w. e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the substitution, the sub -regulation read as 
under- 
“(9) The provisions of sub -regulations (3), (4) and clauses (a) and (b) of sub -regulation (8) of this 
regulation shall not apply if reclassification of promoter(s) is as per the resolution plan approved under 
section 31 of the Insolvency Code or pursuant to an order of a Regulator under any law subject to the 
condition that such promoter(s) seeking reclassification shall not remain in control of the listed entity.”

[Page 68]
68 
 
 
[343(10) In case of reclassification pursuant to an open offer or a scheme of arrangement, 
the provisions of clause (a) of sub-regulation (3) and 344[***] sub-regulation (8) of 
this regulation shall not apply if the intent of the erstwhile promoter(s) to reclassify 
has been disclosed in the letter of offer or scheme of arrangement  345[and subject 
to-] 
 
346[(i) compliance with clauses (b) and (c) of sub -regulation (3) of this regulation, 
and 
 
(ii) disclosure of reclassification within twenty -four hours of completion of open 
offer or scheme of arrangement:] 
 
Provided that the provisions of clause (c)(i) of sub-regulation (3) of this regulation 
shall not apply in case of reclassification pursuant to an open offer.] 
 
347[Explanation I: For the purpose of this sub -regulation, completion of open offer 
shall mean: 
 
(i) the date of actual transfer of s hares from the promoter seeking 
reclassification to the new acquirer, or 
 
(ii) the date on which the new acquirer takes control of the listed entity, 
whichever is later. 
 
Explanation II: For the purpose of this sub -regulation, completion of scheme of  
arrangement shall mean the date on which shares are credited to all eligible 
shareholders of the listed entity or the transferee entity or the resulting entity in 
terms of the approved scheme.] 
 
 
348[Special rights to shareholders: 
31B. (1) Any special right granted to the shareholders of a listed entity shall be subject 
to the approval by the shareholders in a general meeting by way of a special resolution 
once in every five years starting from the date of grant of such special right:  
 
                                                           
343 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
344 The words and symbol “clauses (a) and (b) of” omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
345 Substituted for the symbol “:” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024 . 
346 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
347 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requ irements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
348 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023.

[Page 69]
69 
 
Provided that the special rights available to the shareholders of a listed entity as on the 
date of coming into force of this regulation shall be subject to the approval by 
shareholders by way of a special resolution within a period of five years from the date 
of coming into force of this regulation:  
 
Provided further that the requirement specified in this regulation shall not be applicable 
to the special rights made available by a listed entity to a financial institution registered 
with or regulated by the Reserve Bank of India under a lending arrangement in the 
normal course of business or to a debenture trustee registered with the Board under a 
subscription agreement for the debentures issued by the listed entity, if such financial 
institution or the deben ture trustee becomes a shareholder of the listed entity as a 
consequence of such lending arrangement or subscriptio n agreement for the 
debentures.]  
 
 
Statement of deviation(s) or variation(s).  
32. (1) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange the following statement(s) on a 
quarterly basis for public issue, rights issue, preferential issue etc. ,- 
(a) indicating deviations, if any, in the use of proceeds from the objects stated in the 
offer document or explanatory statement to the notice for the genera l meeting, as 
applicable;  
(b) indicating category wise variation (capital expenditure, sales and marketing, 
working capital etc.) between projected utilisation of funds made by it in its offer 
document or explanatory statement to the notice for the general me eting, as 
applicable and the actual utilisation of funds. 
 
(2) The statement(s) specified in sub -regulation (1), shall be continued to be given till such 
time the issue proceeds have been fully utilised or the purpose for which these proceeds 
were raised has been achieved.  
 
(3) The statement(s) specified in sub -regulation (1), shall be placed before the audit 
committee for review and after such review, shall be submitted to the stock exchange(s). 
 
(4) The listed entity shall furnish an explanation for the variation specified in sub -regulation 
(1), in the directors’ report in the annual report.  
 
(5) The listed entity shall prepare an annual statement of funds utilized for purposes other than 
those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice, certified by the statutory auditors of 
the listed entity, and place it before the audit committee till such time the full money raised 
through the issue has been fully utilized.  
 
(6) Where the listed entity has appointed a monitoring agency to monitor utilisation of 
proceeds of a 349[public issue or rights issue or preferential issue or qualified  institutions 
placement], the listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange(s) any comments or report 
                                                           
349 Substituted for the words “public or rights issue” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022  w.e.f. 14.11.2022.

[Page 70]
70 
 
received from the monitoring agency 350[within forty -five days from the end of each 
quarter].  
 
(7) Where the listed entity has appointed a monitoring agency  to monitor the utilisation of 
proceeds of a 351[public issue or rights issue or preferential issue or qualified institutions 
placement], the monitoring report of such agency shall be placed before the audit 
committee on 352[a quarterly basis], promptly upon its receipt.  
Explanation,—353[For the purpose of sub -regulations (6) and (7), “monitoring agency” 
shall mean the monitoring agency as specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018.]  
 
354[(7A) Where an entity has raised funds through preferential allotment or qualified 
institutions placement, the listed entity shall disclose every year, the utilization of such funds 
during that year in its Annual Report until such funds are fully utilized.]  
  
(8) For the purpose of this regulation, any reference to “quarterly/quarter” in case of listed 
entity which have listed their specified securities on SME Exchange shall respectively be 
read as “half yearly/half year”. 
 
Financial results.  
33. (1) While preparing financial results, the listed entity shall comply with the following: 
 
(a) The financial results shall be prepared on the basis of accrual accounting policy 
and shall be in accordance with uniform accounting practices adopted for all the 
periods. 
 
(b) The quarterly and year to date results shall be prepared in accordance with the 
recognition and measurement principles laid down in Accounting Standard 25 or 
Indian Accounting Standard 31 (AS 25/ Ind AS 34 – Interim Financial Reporting), 
as applicable, speci fied in Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
relevant rules framed thereunder or as specified by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India, whichever is applicable. 
 
(c) The standalone financial results and consolidated financial results shal l be 
prepared as per Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India: 
Provided that in addition to the above, the listed entity may also submit the 
financial results, as per the International Financial Reporting Standards notified by 
the International Accounting Standards Board.  
                                                           
350 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second  Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
351 Substituted for the words “public or rights issue” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022  w.e.f. 14.11.2022. 
352 Substituted for the words “an annual basis” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 24.1.2022.  
353 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. Prior to the substitution, the Explanation read as follows:  
“For the purpose of this sub -regulation, “monitoring agency” shall mean the monitoring agency 
specified in regulation 16 of the Securities a nd Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.” 
354 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.

[Page 71]
71 
 
 
(d) The listed entity shall ensure that the limited review or audit reports submitted to 
the stock exchange(s) on a quarterly or annual basis are to be given only by an 
auditor who has subjected himself 355[/herself] to the peer review process of 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and holds a valid certificate issued by 
the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.  
 
(e) The listed entity shall make the disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule IV.  
 
(2) The approval and authentication of the financial results shall be done by listed entity in the 
following manner: 
  
(a) The quarterly financial results submitted shall be approved by the board of 
directors: 
Provided that while placing the financial results before the board of directors, the 
chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the listed entity shall certify 
that the financial results do not contain any false or misleading statement or figures 
and do not omit any material fact  which may make the statements or figures 
contained therein misleading. 
 
(b) The financial results submitted to the stock exchange shall be signed by the 
chairperson or managing director, or a whole time director or in the absence of all 
of them; it shall be signed by any other director of the listed entity who is duly 
authorized by the board of directors to sign the financial results.  
 
(c) The limited review report shall be placed before the  board of directors, at its 
meeting which approves the financial results, before being submitted to the stock 
exchange(s). 
 
(d) The annual audited financial results shall be approved by the board of directors of 
the listed entity and shall be signed in the manner specified in clause (b) of sub -
regulation (2). 
 
(3) The listed entity shall submit the financial results in the following manner:  
(a) The listed enti ty shall submit quarterly and year -to-date standalone financial 
results to the stock exchange within forty -five days of end of each quarter, other 
than the last quarter 356[:]  
 
357[Provided that such listed entity in respect of which a resolution plan under 
section 31 of the Insolvency Code has been approved, shall disclose its financial 
results within ninety days from  the end of the quarter in which such resolution 
plan was approved, except in case such resolution  plan has been approved in the 
last quarter of a financial year.] 
 
                                                           
355 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
356 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
357 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024

[Page 72]
72 
 
(b)  In case the listed entity has subsidiaries, in addition to the requirement at clause (a) 
of sub-regulation (3), the listed entity 358[shall] also submit quarterly/year-to-date 
consolidated financial results 359[.]  
360[***] 
 
(c)  The quarterly and year-to-date financial results may be either audited or unaudited 
subject to the following:  
 
(i) In case the listed entity opts to submit unaudited financial results, they shall 
be subject to limited review by the statutory auditors of the listed entity and 
shall be accompanied by the limited review report. 
 
Provided that in case of public sector undertakings this limited review may 
be undertaken by any practicing Chartered Accountant. 
 
(ii) In case the listed entity opts to submit audited financial results, they shall be 
accompanied by the audit report. 
 
(d)  The listed entity shall submit [annual] 361 audited standalone financial results for the 
financial year, within sixty days from the end of the financial year along with the audit 
report and [Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (applicable only]362 for audit 
report with modified opinion): 
363[Provided that a listed entity in respect of which a resolution plan under 
section 31 of the  Insolvency Code has been approved during the last quarter of a 
financial year, shall disclose its  annual audited financial results within 120 days 
from the end of such financial year:] 
 
Provided 364[further] that if the listed entity has subsidiaries, it shall, while  
submitting annual audited standalone financial results also submit annual audited 
consolidated financial results along with the audit report and [Statement on Impact 
                                                           
358 Substituted for the word “may” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
359 Substituted ibid for the words “subject to following:” 
360 Sub-clauses (i) and (ii) omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019. Prior to the omission, the said sub-clauses read as follows: 
“(i) the listed entity shall intimate to the stock exchange, whether or not listed entity opts to additionally 
submit quarterly/year-to-date consolidated financial results in the first quarter of the financial year and 
this option shall not be changed during the financial year.  
Provided that this option shall also be applicable to listed entity that is required to prepare consolidated 
financial results for the first time at the end of a financial year in respect of the quarter during the 
financial year in which the listed entity first acquires the subsidiary. 
(ii) in case the listed entity changes its option in any subsequent year, it shall furnish comparable figures 
for the previous year in accordance with the option exercised for the current financial year.” 
361 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
01.04.2016. 
362 Substituted for ‘either Form A (for audit report with unmodified opinion) or Form B (’ by SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016  
363 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
364 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 73]
73 
 
of Audit Qualifications (applicable only] 365 for audit report with modified 
opinion)[:]366  
 
[Provided further that, in case of audit reports with unmodified opinion(s), the listed 
entity shall furnish a declaration to that effect to the Stock Exchan ge(s) while 
publishing the annual audited financial results.]367 
 
(e)  The listed entity shall also submit the audited 368[or limited reviewed] financial 
results in respect of the last quarter along -with the results for the entire financial 
year, with a note stati ng that the figures of last quarter are the balancing figures 
between audited figures in respect of the full financial year and the published year-
to-date figures upto the third quarter of the current financial year.  
 
(f)  The listed entity shall also submit as part of its standalone or consolidated financial 
results for the half year, by way of a note, a statement of assets and liabilities as at 
the end of the half-year.  
 
369[(g) The listed entity shall also submit as part of its standalone and consolidated 
financial results for the half year, by way of a note, statement of cash flows for the 
half-year. 
 
(h) The listed entity shall ensure that, for the purposes of quarterly consolidated 
financial results, at least eighty percent of each of the consolidated revenue, assets and 
profits, respectively, shall have been subject to audit or in case of unaudited results, 
subjected to limited review. 
 
(i) The listed entity shall disclose, in the results for the last quarter in the financial 
year, by way of a note, the aggregate effect of material adjustments made in the results 
of that quarter which pertain to earlier periods.] 
 
370[(j) The listed entity shall, subsequent to the listing, submit its financial results for the 
quarter or the financial year immediately succeeding the period for which the financial 
statements have been disclosed in the offer document for the initial public offer, in 
accordance with the timeline specified in clause (a) or clause (d) of this sub-regulation, 
as the case may be, or within 21 days from the date of its listing, whichever is later.]  
 
                                                           
365 Substituted for ‘either Form A (for audit report with unmodified opinion) or Form B (’ by SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016  
366 Substituted for the symbol ‘.’ by SEBI (Listing Obl igations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016. 
367 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
01.04.2016. 
368 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and D isclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.  
369 Inserted ibid.  
370 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15 .7.2023. The clause shall be applicable to the issuers whose 
public issues open on or after  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 come into effect.

[Page 74]
74 
 
(4) The applicable formats of the financial results and [Statement on Impact of Audit 
Qualifications (for audit report with modified opinion)] 371 shall be in the manner as 
specified by the Board [***]372. 
 
(5) For the purpose of this regulation, any reference to “quarterly/quarter” in case of listed 
entity which has listed their specified securities on SME Exchange shall be respectively 
read as “half yearly/half year” and the requirement of submitting ‘year -to-date’ financial 
results shall not be applicable for a listed entity which has listed their specified securities 
on SME Exchange. 
 
(6) 373[***]  
 
(7) [***]374 
375[(8) The statutory auditor of a listed entity shall undertake a limited review of the audit of 
all the entities/ companies whose accounts are to be consolidated with the listed entity as per 
AS 21 in accordance with guidelines issued by the Board on this matter.] 
 
Annual Report.  
34. 376[(1) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange and publish on its website- 
 
 (a)  a copy of the annual report sent to the shareholders along with the notice of the annual 
general meeting 377[on or before the] commencement of dispatch to its shareholders; 
 
 (b) in the event of any changes to the annual report, the revised copy along with the details 
of and explanation for the changes shall be sent not later than 48 hours after the annual 
general meeting.] 
 
(2)  The annual report shall contain the following:  
                                                           
371 Substituted for ‘Form A (for audit report with unmodified opinion) & Form B (for audit report with modified 
opinion)’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
01.04.2016 
372 The words ‘from time to time ’ omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.  
373 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. Prior to the omission, sub-regulation (6) read as follows:  
“(6) The Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (for audit report with modified opinion) and the 
accompanying annual audit report submitted in terms of clause (d) of sub -regulation (3)  shall be 
reviewed by the stock exchange(s).” 
374 Omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
01.04.2016. Prior to omission, sub regulation (7) read as follows: 
‘(7) The listed entity shall on the direction issued by the Board, carry out the necessary steps, for rectification of 
modified opinion and/or submission of revised pro -forma financial results, in the manner specified in Schedule 
VIII.’ 
375 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
376 Substituted ibid, and applicable for Annual report filed for the year ended March 31, 2019 and thereafter. 
Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows: 
“(1) The listed entity shall submit the annual report to the stock exchange within twenty one working days of it 
being approved and adopted in the annual general meeting as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.”  
377 Substituted for the words “not later than the day of” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 75]
75 
 
(a) audited financial statements i.e. balance sheets, profit and loss accou nts etc [,and 
Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications as stipulated in regulation 33(3)(d), 
if applicable;]378 
(b) consolidated financial statements audited by its statutory auditors;  
(c) cash flow statement presented only under the indirect method as prescribe d in 
Accounting Standard-3 or Indian Accounting Standard 7, as applicable, specified 
in Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with relevant rules framed 
thereunder or as specified by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, 
whichever is applicable; 
(d) directors report; 
(e) management discussion and analysis report - either as a part of directors report or 
addition thereto; 
379[(f) for the top one thousand listed entities based on market capitalization, a Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report on the environmental, social and 
governance disclosures, in the format as may be specified by the Board from time to 
time:  
 
Provided that the 380[assessment or assurance of the specified parameters as per] the 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Core shall be obtained, with effect 
from and in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time:  
 
Provided further that the listed entities shall also make disclosures and obtain 381[the 
assessment or assurance of the specified parameters ] as per  the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report Core for their value chain, with effect from 
and in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time:  
 
Provided further that the remaining listed entities, including the entities which have 
listed their specified securities on the SME Exchange, may voluntarily disclose the 
                                                           
378 Substituted for the symbol ‘;’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016.  
379 Substitute by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.6.2023. Prior to its substitution, clause (f) read as under: 
“(f) for the top one thousand listed entities based on market capitalization, a business responsibility report 
describing the initiatives taken by the listed entity from an environmental, social and governance perspective, 
in the format as specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that the requirement of submitting a business responsibility report shall be discontinued after the 
financial year 2021 –22 and thereafter, with effect from the financial year 2022 –23, the top one thousand 
listed entities based on market capitalization shall submit a business responsibility and sustainability report 
in the format as specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided further that even during the financial year 2021 –22, the top one thousand listed entities may 
voluntarily sub mit a business responsibility and sustainability report in place of the mandatory business 
responsibility report: 
Provided further that the remaining listed entities including the entities which have listed their specified 
securities on the SME Exchange, may voluntarily submit such reports. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, market capitalization shall be calculated as on the 31st day of 
March of every financial year.” 
 
380 Substituted for the words “assurance of” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.   
381 Substituted for the word “assurance” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.

[Page 76]
76 
 
Business Responsibility and Sust ainability Report or may voluntarily obtain the 
382[assessment or assurance of the specified parameters as per ] the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report Core, for themselves or for their value 
chain, as the case may be.  
 
Explanation-1: For the purpose of this clause: 
383[***] 
(ii) Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Core shall comprise of such 
key performance indicators as may be specified by the Board from time to time; 
(iii) “value chain” for the listed entities shall be specified by the Board from time 
to time.] 
 
(3)  The annual report shall contain any other disclosures specified in Companies Act, 2013 
along with other requirements as specified in Schedule V of these regulations.  
 
Annual Information Memorandum. 
35. The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange(s) an Annual Information 
Memorandum in the manner specified by the Board from time to time.  
 
Documents & Information to shareholders.  
36.  (1) The listed entity shall send the annual report in the followin g manner to the 
shareholders: 
(a) Soft copies of full annual report to all those shareholder(s) who have registered 
their email address(es) 384[***] 385[either with the listed entity or with any 
depository];  
(b) 386[A letter  providing the web -link, including the exact path, where complete 
details of the Annual Report is available] to those shareholder(s) who have not so 
registered; 
(c) Hard 387[copy] of full annual 388[report]  to those shareholders, who request for the 
same. 
 
(2)  389[***]  
                                                           
382 Substituted for the words “assurance of” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.   
383 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024. Prior to its omission, clause (i) read as follows:  
“(i) market capitalization shall be calculated as on the 31st day of March of every financial year;.” 
384 Words “for the purpose” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
385 Inserted ibid, applicable for Annual report filed for the year ended March 31, 2019 and thereafter. 
386 Substituted for the words, symbols and numerals  “Hard copy of statement containing the salient features of 
all the documents, as prescribed in Section 136 of Companies Act, 2013 or rules made thereunder ” by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
387 Substituted for the word  “copies” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
388 Substituted for the word  “reports” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.1 2.2024. 
389 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as under-

[Page 77]
77 
 
 
(3) In case of the appointment of a new director or re -appointment of a director the 
shareholders must be provided with the following information: 
(a)  a brief resume of the director; 
(b)  nature of 390[***] expertise in specific functional areas; 
(c)  disclosure of relationships between directors inter-se; 
(d)  names of listed entities in which the person also holds the directorship and the 
membership of Committees of the board  391[along with listed entities from which 
the person has resigned in the past three years]; and 
(e)  shareholding of non -executive directors 392[in the listed entity, including 
shareholding as a beneficial owner];  
393[(f). In case of independent directors, the skills and capabilities required for the role 
and the manner in which the proposed person meets such requirements.] 
 
394[(4) The disclosures made by the listed entity with immediate effect from date of 
notification of these amendments- 
(a) to the stock exchanges shall be in XBRL format in accordance with the guidelines specified 
by the stock exchanges from time to time; and 
(b) to the stock exchanges and on its website, shall be in a format that allows users to find 
relevant information easily through a searching tool: 
 
Provided that the requirement to make disclosures in searchable formats shall not apply in 
case there is a statutory require ment to make such disclosures in formats which may not be 
searchable, such as copies of scanned documents.  
 
(5) The notice being sent to shareholders for an annual general meeting, where the statutory 
auditor(s) 395[or Secretarial Auditor ] is/are proposed t o be appointed/re -appointed shall 
include the following disclosures as a part of the explanatory statement to the notice:  
 
 (a) Proposed fees paya ble to the statutory auditor(s) 396[or Secretarial Auditor ] 
along with terms of appointment and in case of a new  auditor, any material 
change in the fee payable to such auditor from that paid to the outgoing auditor 
along with the rationale for such change; 
 
                                                           
“(2) The listed entity shall s end annual report referred to in sub -regulation (1), to the holders of 
securities, not less than twenty-one days before the annual general meeting.” 
390 The word “his” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
391 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
392 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requiremen ts) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
393 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
394 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
395 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
396 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 78]
78 
 
 (b) Basis of recommendation for appointment including the details in relation to 
and credentials of the statutory auditor(s) 397[or Secretarial Auditor] proposed 
to be appointed.] 
 
Draft Scheme of Arrangement & Scheme of Arrangement. 
37.  (1)Without prejudice to provisions of  regulation 11, the listed entity desirous of 
undertaking a scheme of arrangement or involved in a scheme of arrangement, shall 
file the draft scheme of arrangement, proposed to be filed before any Court or Tribunal 
under sections 391 -394 and 101 of the Companies Act, 1956 or under Sections 230 -
234 and Section 66 of Companies Act, 2013, whichever a pplicable, 398[along with a 
non-refundable fee as specified in Schedule XI,] with the stock exchange(s) for 
obtaining 399[the] No -objection letter, before filing such scheme with  any Court or 
Tribunal, in terms of requirements specified by the Board or stock e xchange(s) from 
time to time.  
 
(2) The listed entity shall not file any scheme of arrangement under sections 391-394 and 
101 of the Companies Act, 1956 or under Sections 230 -234 and Section 66 of 
Companies Act, 2013 ,whichever applicable, with any Court or Tribunal unless it has 
obtained400 [the] No-objection letter from the stock exchange(s). 
 
(3) The listed entity shall place the 401[***] No-objection letter of the stock exchange(s) 
before the Court or Tribunal at the time of seeking approval of the scheme of 
arrangement: 
Provided that the validity of the 402[***] No-objection letter of stock exchanges shall 
be six months from the date of issuance, within which the draft scheme of arrangement 
shall be submitted to the Court or Tribunal. 
 
(4)The listed entity shall ensur e compliance with the other requirements as may be 
prescribed by the Board from time to time.  
 
(5) Upon sanction of the Scheme by the Court or Tribunal, the listed entity shall submit 
the documents, to the stock exchange(s), as prescribed by the Board and/or stock 
exchange(s) from time to time.  
 
(6) 403[Nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to draft schemes which- 
                                                           
397 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
398 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 
6.3.2017. 
399 Substituted for “Observation Letter or” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requir ements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
400 Substituted for “Observation Letter or” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
401 The words “Observation letter or” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
402 The words and symbol “’Observation Letter’ or” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
403 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the substitution, the sub -regulation read as 
under- 
“(6) Nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to draft schemes which solely provide for merger of a wholly 
owned subsidiary with its holding company:

[Page 79]
79 
 
   
 a) solely provide for merger of a wholly owned subsidiary with its holding company; 
or 
 
b) solely provide for writing off the accumulated losses against the share capital of the 
listed entity applied uniformly across all shareholders on a pro rata basis or against the 
reserves of the listed entity: 
 
Provided that such draft schemes shall be filed with recognized stock exchanges for the 
purpose of disclosures.] 
 
[(7) The requirements as specified under this regulation and under regulation 94 of 
these regulations shall not apply to a restructuring proposal approved as part of a 
resolution plan by the Tribunal under section 31 of the Insolvency Code, subject to the 
details being disclosed to the recognized stock exchanges within one day of the 
resolution plan being approved.]404 
 
405[37A. Sale, lease or disposal of an undertaking outside Scheme of Arrangement  
(1) A listed entity carrying out  sale, lease or otherwise disposal of the whole or 
substantially the whole of the undertaking of such entity or where it owns more than 
one undertaking, of the whole or substantially the whole of any of such undertakings, 
shall - 
(a) take prior approval of shareholders by way of special resolution; 
(b) disclose the object of and commercial rationale for carrying out such sale, lease 
or otherwise disposal of the whole or substantially the whole of the undertaking 
of the entity, and the use of proceeds arising therefrom, in the statement annexed 
to the notice to be sent to the shareholders:  
 
Provided that such a special resolution shall be acted upon only if the votes cast by 
the public shareholders in favour of the resolution exceed the votes cast by such 
public shareholders against the resolution:  
 
Provided further that no public shareholder shall vote on the resolution if he is a party, 
directly or indirectly, to such sale, lease or otherwise disposal of the whole or 
substantially the whole of the undertaking of the listed entity.  
 
Explanation. —For the purposes of this regulation, the terms “undertaking” and 
“substantially the whole of the undertaking” shall have the same meaning as assigned 
to them under clause (a) of sub -section (1) of section 180 of the Companies Act, 
2013. 
 
(2) The requirement as s pecified in sub -regulation (1) shall not be applicable for sale, 
lease or otherwise disposal of the whole or substantially the whole of the undertaking 
                                                           
 Provided that such draft schemes shall be filed with the stock exchanges for the purpose of disclosures.” 
404 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 31.05.2018. 
405 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.6 .2023. The aforesaid amendment shall not be applicable to 
such sale, lease or disposal of undertakings of a listed entity where the notice has already been dispatched to the 
shareholders of the listed entity.

[Page 80]
80 
 
by a listed entity to its wholly owned subsidiary whose accounts are consolidated 
with such listed entity:  
 
Provided that prior to such wholly owned subsidiary selling, leasing or otherwise 
disposing of the whole or substantially the whole of the undertaking received from a 
listed entity, whether in whole or in part, to any other entity, such listed entity shall 
comply with the requirements specified in sub-regulation (1):  
 
Provided further that the listed entity shall comply with the requirements specified in 
sub-regulation (1) before diluting its shareholding below hundred percent in its 
wholly owned subs idiary to which the whole or substantially the whole of the 
undertaking of such listed entity was transferred.  
 
Explanation: The provisions of this regulation shall not be applicable where sale, 
lease or otherwise disposal of the whole or substantially the whole of the undertaking 
of a listed entity is by virtue of a covenant covered under an agreement with a 
financial institution regulated by or registered with the Reserve Bank of India or with 
a Debenture Trustee registered with the Board.]  
 
Minimum Public Shareholding. 
38. The listed entity shall comply with the minimum public shareholding requirements 
specified in Rule 19(2) and Rule 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 
1957 in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that provisions of this regulation shall not apply to entities listed on 
406[Innovators Growth Platform] without making a public issue. 
 
Issuance of Certificates or Receipts/Letters/Advices for securities and dealing with 
unclaimed securities.  
39.  (1) The listed entity shall comply with Rule 19(3) of Securities Contract (Regulations) 
Rules, 1957 in respect of Letter/Advices of Allotment, Acceptance or Rights, transfers, 
subdivision, consolidation, renewal, exchanges, issuance of duplicates thereof or a ny 
other purpose.  
  
(2)  407[The listed entity shall effect credit of securities pursuant to investor service requests in 
relation to subdivision, split, consolidation, renewal, exchanges and issuance of duplicate 
securities on account of loss or old decrepit or worn out certificates in dematerialised form 
within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of such request along with relevant 
documents.] 
 
                                                           
406 Substituted for “Institutional Trading Platform” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
407 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. Prior to its substitution, the sub-regulation (2) read as under: 
“(2) The listed entity shall effect issuance of letter of confirmation or receipts or advices, as applicable, of 
subdivision, split, consolidation, renewal, exchanges, endorsements, issuance of duplicates thereof or letter 
of confirmation or receipts or advices, as applicable, in cases of loss or old decrepit or worn out certificates 
or receipts or advices, as applicable, in  dematerialised form within a period of thirty days from the date of 
such lodgement.”

[Page 81]
81 
 
408[(2A) The listed entity shall issue securities pursuant to any Scheme of Arrangement or any 
sub-division, split or consolidation of securities only in the dematerialised form: 
Provided that the listed entity shall open a separate demat account for such securities of 
investors not having a demat account.] 
 
(3) 409[***] 
 
(4) The listed entity shall comply wi th the procedural requirements specified in Schedule VI 
while dealing with securities issued pursuant to the public issue or any other issue, physical 
or otherwise, which remain unclaimed and/or are lying in the escrow account, as applicable. 
 
 
Transfer or transmission or transposition of securities.  
40.  410[(1) Save as otherwise specified in provisions of securities laws or Companies Act, 2013 
and rules made thereunder, the listed entity shall also comply with the following 
requirements: 
 
(a) The requests for effecting transfer of securities shall not be processed unless the 
securities are held in the dematerialised form with a depository; 
 
(b) Transmission or transposition of securities held in physical or dematerialised form 
shall be effected only in dematerialised form: 
 
Provided that nothing contained in clause (a) shall prevent the registration of transfer of 
securities executed before April 01, 2019 and still held in physical form subject to such 
conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
(2)  411[***] 
 
                                                           
408 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 08.09.2025. 
409 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as under- 
“(3) The listed entity shall submit information regarding loss of share certifi cates and issue of the duplicate 
certificates, to the stock exchange within two days of its getting information.” 
410 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. Prior to its substitution, the sub-regulation (1) read as under: 
“(1) Save as otherwise specified in provisions of securities laws or Companies Act, 2013 and rules made 
thereunder, the listed entity shall also comply with the requirements as specified in this regulation for 
effecting transfer of securities: 
Provided that requests for effecting transfer of securities shall not be processed unless the securities are held 
in the dematerialised form with a depository: 
Provided further that transmission or transposition of securities held in physical or dematerialised form shall 
be effected only in dematerialised form.” 
411 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as under- 
“(2)The board of directors of a listed entity may delegate the power of transfer of securities to a committee or 
to compliance officer or to the registrar to an issue and/or share transfer agent(s):  
Provided that the board of directors and/or the delegated authority shall attend to the formalities pertaining to 
transfer of securities at least once in a fortnight:  
Provided further that the delegated authority shall report on transfer of securities to the board of directors in 
each meeting.”

[Page 82]
82 
 
(3)  412[***] 
  
(4) The listed entity shall not register transfer when any statutory prohibition or any 
attachment or prohibitory order of a competent authority restrains it from transferring 
the securities from the name of the transferor(s).  
 
(5) The listed entity shall not register the transfer of its securities in the name of the 
transferee(s) when the transferor(s) objects to the transfer: 
Provided that the transferor serves on the listed entity, within sixty working days of raising 
the objection, a prohibitory order of a Court of competent jurisdiction.  
 
(6) 413[***]  
 
(7) 414[The listed entity shall comply with all procedural requirements with respect to transfer 
and transmission of securities as specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
(8)    415[***]    
416[****] 
 
(9)  417[***]    
                                                           
412 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as under- 
“(3)On receipt of proper documentation, the listed en tity shall register transfers of its securities in the name of 
the transferee(s) and issue certificates or receipts or advices, as applicable, of transfers; or issue any valid 
objection or intimation to the transferee or transferor, as the case may be, wit hin a period of fifteen days from 
the date of such receipt of request for transfer: 
Provided that the listed entity shall ensure that transmission requests are processed within seven days, after 
receipt of the specified documents:  
Provided further that proper verifiable dated records of all correspondence with the investor shall be maintained 
by the listed entity.” 
413 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as under- 
“(6) The listed entity shall not decline to, register or acknowledge any transfer of shares, on the ground of the 
transferor(s) being either alone or jointly with any other person o r persons indebted to the listed entity on any 
account whatsoever.” 
414 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 14-07-2026. Prior to its substitution, it read as under: 
“The listed entity shall comply with all procedural requirements as specified in Schedule VII with respect to 
transfer and transmission of securities.” 
415 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as under- 
“(8) In case the listed entity has not effected transfer of securities within fifteen days or where the listed entity 
has failed to communicate to the transferee(s) any valid objection to the transfer, within the stipulated time period 
of fifteen days, the listed entity shall compensate the aggrieved party for the opportunity losses caused during 
the period of the delay: 
Provided that during the intervening period on account of delay in transfer above, the liste d entity shall provide 
all benefits, which have accrued, to the holder of securities in terms of provisions of Section 126 of Companies 
Act, 2013, and Section 27 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956.”  
416 The words “ Provided further that in cas e of any claim, difference or dispute under this sub -regulation the 
same shall be referred to and decided by arbitration as provided in the bye-laws and/or regulations of the stock 
exchange(s)” omitted  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alterna tive Dispute Resolution 
Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 04-07-2023.  
417 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as under-

[Page 83]
83 
 
 
(10)  418[***]   
 
(11) In addition to transfer of securities, the provisions of this regulation shall also apply to 
the following : 
(a) deletion of name of the deceased holder(s) of securities, where the securities  are 
held in the name of two or more holders of securities ; 
(b) transmission of securities to the legal heir(s), where deceased holder of securities  
was the sole holder of securities; 
(c) transposition of securities, when there is a change in the order of names in which 
physical securities are held jointly in the names of two or more holders of securities. 
 
Other provisions relating to securities.  
41.  (1) The listed entity shall not exercise a lien on its fully paid shares and that in respect 
of partly paid shares it shall not exercise any lien except in respect of moneys called or 
payable at a fixed time in respect of such shares. 
 
(2) The listed entity shall, in case of any amount to be paid in advance of calls on any shares 
stipulate that such amount may carry interest but shall not in respect thereof confer a right 
to dividend or to participate in profits.  
 
419[(3) The listed entity shall not issue shares in any manner that may confer on any person; superior 
or inferior rights as to dividend vis -à-vis the rights on equity shares that are alrea dy listed 
or inferior voting rights vis-à-vis the rights on equity shares that are already listed:  
Provided that, a listed entity having SR equity shares issued to its promoters/ founders, may 
issue SR equity shares to its SR shareholders only through a b onus, split or rights issue in 
accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and the Companies Act, 2013.] 
 
(4) The listed entity shall, issue or offer in the first  instance all shares  (including forfeited 
shares), securities, rights, privileges and benefits to subscribe pro rata basis , to the equity 
shareholders of the listed entity, unless the shareholders in the general meeting decide 
otherwise. 
 
(5) Unless the terms of issue otherwise provide, the listed entity shall not select any of its listed 
securities for redemption otherwise than on pro-rata basis or by lot. 
 
                                                           
“(9)The listed entity shall ensure that the share transfer agent and/or the in -house share transfer facility, as the 
case may be, produces a certificate from a practicing company secretary within  [thirty days from] the end of the 
financial year, certifying that all certificates have been issued within thirty days of the date of lodgement for 
transfer, sub-division, consolidation, renewal, exchange or endorsement of calls/allotment monies. ” 
418 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as under- 
“(10) The listed entity shall ensure that certificate men tioned at sub-regulation (9), shall be filed with the stock 
exchange(s) simultaneously.” 
419 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 29.7.2019. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as follows,- 
“(3) The listed entity shall not issue shares in any manner which may confer on any person, superior rights as to 
voting or dividend vis-à-vis the rights on equity shares that are already listed.”

[Page 84]
84 
 
420[Other provisions relating to outstanding SR equity shares. 
41A (1) The SR equity shares shall be trea ted at par with the ordinary equity shares in every 
respect, including dividends, except in the case of voting on resolutions.  
 
(2) The total voting rights of SR shareholders (including ordinary shares) in the issuer upon 
listing, pursuant to an initial p ublic offer, shall not at any point of time exceed seventy four 
per cent. 
(3) The SR equity shares shall be treated as ordinary equity shares in terms of voting rights 
(i.e. one SR share shall only have one vote) in the following circumstances -  
i. appointment or removal of independent directors and/or auditor; 
ii. where a promoter is willingly transferring control to another entity;  
iii. related party transactions in terms of these regulations involving an SR 
shareholder;  
iv. voluntary winding up of the listed entity; 
v. changes to the Articles of Association or Memorandum of Association of the 
listed entity, except any change affecting the SR equity share;  
vi. initiation of a voluntary resolution process under the Insolvency Code;  
vii. utilization of funds for purposes other than business;  
viii. substantial value transaction based on materiality threshold as specified under 
these regulations;  
ix. passing of special resolution in respect of delisting or buy-back of shares; and 
x. other circumstances or subject matter as may be specified by the Board, from 
time to time. 
 
(4) The SR equity shares shall be converted into equity shares having voting rights same as 
that of ordinary shares on the fifth anniversary of listing of ordinary shares of the listed entity:  
Provided that the SR equity shares may be valid for upto an ad ditional five years, after a 
resolution to that effect has been passed, where the SR shareholders have not been permitted 
to vote:  
Provided further that the SR shareholders may convert their SR equity shares into ordinary 
equity shares at any time prior to the period as specified in this sub-regulation.  
 
(5) The SR equity shares shall be compulsorily converted into equity shares having voting 
rights same as that of ordinary shares on the occurrence of any of the following events -  
i. demise of the promoter(s) or founder holding such shares;  
ii. an SR shareholder resigns from the executive position in the listed entity;  
iii. merger or acquisition of the listed entity having SR shareholder/s, where the 
control would no longer remain with the SR shareholder/s; 
iv. the SR equity shares are sold by an SR shareholder who continues to hold such 
shares after the lock -in period but prior to the lapse of validity of such SR 
equity shares.] 
 
Record Date or Date of closure of transfer books. 
42.  (1) The listed entity shall intimate the record date 421[for the following events to all the 
stock exchange(s) where it is listed or where stock derivatives are available on the stock 
                                                           
420 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2019, w.e.f. 29.7.2019. 
421 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 05.08.2020. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows,-

[Page 85]
85 
 
of the listed entity or where listed entity’s stock form part of an index on which 
derivatives are available:] 
(a) declaration of dividend; 
(b) issue of right or bonus shares; 
(c) issue of shares for conversion of debentures or any other convertible security; 
(d) shares arising out of rights attached to debentures or any other convertible security 
(e) 422[corporate actions like mergers, de-mergers, splits, etc;] 
(f) such other purposes as may be specified by the stock exchange(s). 
 
(2) The listed entity shall give notice in advance of atleast 423[three] working days (excluding 
the date of intimation and the record date)  to stock exchange(s) of record date specifying 
the purpose of the record date: 
424[Provided that in the case of 425[corporate actions through schemes of arrangement 
covered under regulation 37] , the listed entity shall give notice in advance of atleast 
426[seven] working days (excluding the date of intimation and the record date).] 
 
(3)  427[***]  
 
(4) The listed entity shall ensure the time gap of at least 428[five working] days between two 
record dates. 
 
(5) 429[***] 
Dividends. 
43.  (1) The listed entity shall declare and disclose the dividend on per share basis only. 
 
                                                           
“The listed entity shall intimate the record date to all the stock exchange(s) where it is listed for the following 
purposes:” 
422 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 05.08.2020. Prior to its substitution, clause (e) read as follows,- 
“corporate actions like mergers, de -mergers, splits and bonus shares, where stock derivatives are available on 
the stock of listed entity or where listed entity's stocks form part of an index on which derivatives are available;” 
423 Substituted for the word “seven” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
424 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendme nt) Regulations, 
2019, w.e.f. 26.12.2019. 
425 Substituted for the words “rights issues” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
426 Substituted for t he word “three” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
427 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosu re Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  Prior to the Omission, the sub -regulation read as 
under- 
“(3) The listed entity shall recommend or declare all dividend and/or cash bonuses at least five working days 
(excluding the date of intimation and the record date) before the record date fixed for the purpose. ” 
428 Substituted for the word “thirty” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
429 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  Prior to the Omission, the sub -regulation read as 
under- 
“(5) For securities held in physical form, the listed entity may, announce dates of closure of its transfer books 
in place of record date for complying with requirements as specified in sub -regulations (1) to (4): 
 Provided that the listed entity shall ensure that there is a ti me gap of atleast thirty days between two 
dates of closure of its transfer books.”

[Page 86]
86 
 
(2) The listed entity shall not forfeit unclaimed dividends before the claim becomes barred by 
law and such forfeiture, if effected, shall be annulled in appropriate cases. 
 
430[Dividend Distribution Policy. 
43A (1) The top 431[1000] listed entities based on market capitalization  432[***] shall 
formulate a dividend distribution policy which shall be disclosed 433[on the website of the 
listed entity and a web-link shall also be provided in their annual reports]. 
(2) The dividend distribution policy shall include the following parameters: 
 
(a) the circumstances under which the shareholders of the listed entities may or may not 
expect dividend; 
(b) the financial parameters that shall be considered while declaring dividend; 
(c) internal and external factors that shall be considered for declaration of dividend; 
(d) policy as to how the retained earnings shall be utilized; and 
(e) parameters that shall be adopted with regard to various classes of shares: 
 
Provided that if the listed entity proposes to declare dividend on the basis of parameters in 
addition to clauses (a) to (e) or proposes to change such additional parameters or the dividend 
distribution policy contained in any of the parameters, it shal l disclose such changes along 
with the rationale for the same in its annual report and on its website. 
 
434[(3) The listed entities other than those specified at sub-regulation (1) of this regulation may 
disclose their dividend distribution policies on a voluntary basis on their websites and provide 
a web-link in their annual reports.] 
 
435[Meetings of shareholders and voting]. 
44.  (1) The listed entity shall provide the facility of remote e-voting facility to its 
shareholders, in respect of all shareholders' resolutions.  
 
(2) The e-voting facility to be provided to shareholders in terms of sub-regulation (1), shall be 
provided in compliance with the conditions specified under the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014, or amendments made thereto.  
 
                                                           
430 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f. 08.07.2016. 
431 Substituted for “five hundred” by the SEBI (L isting Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
432 The words “ (calculated as on March 31 of every financial year) ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosur e Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 
31.12.2024. 
433 Substituted for “in their annual reports and on their websites” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
434 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as follows: 
“The listed entities other than top five hundred listed entities based o n market capitalization may 
disclose their dividend distribution policies on a voluntary basis in their annual reports and on their 
websites.” 
435 Substituted for “Voting by shareholders” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019.

[Page 87]
87 
 
(3) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange, within 436[two working days] of 
conclusion of its General Meeting, details regarding the voting results in the format 
specified by the Board.  
 
(4) The listed entity shall send proxy forms to holders of securities in all cases mentioning that 
a holder may vote either for or against each resolution 437[:] 
 
438[Provided that the requirement to send proxy forms shall not be applicable to general 
meetings held only through electronic mode.] 
 
439[(5) The top 100 listed entities by market capitalization  440[***] shall hold their annual 
general meetings within a period of five months from the date of closing of the financial year.  
 
(6) The top 100 listed entities shall provide one -way live webcast of the proceedings of the 
annual general meetings.] 
 
441 [***] 
 
 
Change in name of the listed entity.  
45.  (1) The listed entity shall be allowed to change its name subject to compliance with 
the following conditions: 
(a) a time period of at least one year has elapsed from the last name change; 
(b) at least fifty percent. of the total revenue in the preceding one year period has been 
accounted for by the new activity suggested by the new name; or 
(c) the amount invested in the new activity/project is atleast fifty percent. of the assets 
of the listed entity:  
 
Provided that if any listed entity has changed its activities which are not reflected in its name, 
it shall change its name in line with its activities within a period of six months from the change 
of activities in compliance of provis ions as applicable to change of name prescribed under 
Companies Act, 2013. 
 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this regulation, - 
 (i) 'assets' of the listed entity means the sum of fixed assets, advances, works in 
Progress / Inventories, investments, trade receivables, cash & cash equivalents; 
                                                           
436 Substituted for “forty eight hours” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
437 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
438 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
439 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
440 The words “, determined as on March 3 1st of every financial year,” omitted by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 
31.12.2024. 
441 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 31.12.2024. Prior to its omission, the Explanation read as follows:  
“Explanation: The top 100 entities shall be determined on the basis of market capitalisation, as at the 
end of the immediate previous financial year.”

[Page 88]
88 
 
 (ii) ‘advances’ shall include only those amounts extended to contractors and 
suppliers towards execution of project, specific to new activity as reflected in the 
new name. 
 
(2) On satisfaction of conditions at sub-regulation (1), the listed entity shall file an application for 
name availability with Registrar of Companies.  
 
(3) 442[ Upon compliance with the conditions for change of name laid down in Companies Act, 
2013 and rules made thereunder, the listed entity, in the explanatory statement to the notice 
seeking shareholders’ approval for change in name, shall include a certificate  from a 
practicing chartered accountant stating compliance with conditions provided in sub -
regulation (1).]  
 
Website. 
46.  (1) The listed entity shall maintain a functional website containing the basic 
information about the listed entity.  
 
(2) The listed entity shall disseminate the following information 443[under a separate section 
on its website]:  
(a) details of its business; 
444[(aa) Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association; 
(ab) Brief profile of board of directors including directorship and full-time positions 
in body corporates;] 
(b) terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors; 
(c) composition of various committees of board of directors; 
(d) code of conduct of board of directors and senior management personnel; 
(e) details of establishment of vigil mechanism/ Whistle Blower policy; 
(f) criteria of making payments to non -executive directors , if the same has not been 
disclosed in annual report; 
(g) policy on dealing with related party transactions; 
(h) policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries; 
(i) details of familiarization programmes imparted to independent directors including 
the following details:- 
(i) number of programmes attended by independent directors (during the year and 
on a cumulative basis till date), 
(ii) number of hours spent by indep endent directors in such programmes (during 
the year and on cumulative basis till date), and  
(iii) other relevant details  
(j) the email address for grievance redressal and other relevant details;  
                                                           
442 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as follows: 
“On receipt of confirmation regarding name availability from Registrar of Companies, before filing the 
request for change of name with the Registrar of Companies in terms of provisions laid down in 
Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder, the listed entity shall seek approval fr om Stock 
Exchange by submitting a certificate from chartered accountant stating compliance with conditions at 
sub-regulation (1).” 
443 Substituted for the words “on its website” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
444 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 89]
89 
 
(k) contact information of the designated officials of the listed entit y who are 
responsible for assisting and handling investor grievances; 
(l) financial information including: 
(i) notice of meeting of the b oard of directors where financial results shall be 
discussed; 
(ii) financial results, on conclusion of the meeting of the board of directors where 
the financial results were approved; 
(iii) complete copy of the annual report including balance sheet, profit and loss 
account, directors report, corporate governance report etc; 
(m) shareholding pattern; 
(n) details of agreements entered into with the media companies and/or their associates, 
etc; 
(o)  445[(i)]446[Schedule of analysts or institutional investors meet  447[at least two 
working days in advance (excluding the date of the intim ation and the date of the 
meet)] 448[;]  
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause ‘meet’ shall mean group meetings or 
group conference calls conducted physically or through digital means;] 
449[(ii) Presentations prepared by the listed entity for analysts or institutional 
investors meet, post earnings or quarterly calls prior to beginning of such events.] 
 450[ (oa) Audio recordings, video recordings, if any, and transcripts of post earnings 
or quarterly calls, by  whatever name called, conducted physically or through 
digital means, in the following manner: 
                                                           
445 Renumbered as sub -clause (i) by the Securities and Exchange Bo ard of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
446 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. Prior to the substitution, clause (o) read as follows: 
“schedule of analyst or institutional investor meet and presentations made by the listed entity to analysts 
or institutional investors simultaneously with submission to stock exchange”  
447 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
448 Substituted for the words “ and presentations made by the listed entity to analysts or institutional investors. ” 
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
449Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
450 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as under- 
“(oa) Audio or video recordings and transcripts of post earnings/quarterly calls, by whatever name called, 
conducted physically or through digital means, simultaneously with submission to the recognized 
stock exchange(s), in the following manner: 
(i) the presentation and the audio/video recordings shall be promptly made available on the 
website and in any case, before the next trading day or within twenty-four hours from the 
conclusion of such calls, whichever is earlier; 
(ii) the transcripts of such calls shall be made available on the website within five working 
days of the conclusion of such calls: 
Provided that— 
a. The information under sub-clause (i) shall be hosted on the website of the listed 
entity for a minimum period of five years and thereafter as per the archival policy 
of the listed entity, as disclosed on its website. 
b. The information under sub-clause (ii) shall be hosted on the website of the listed 
entity and preserved in accordance with clause (a) of regulation 9. 
The requiremen t for disclosure(s) of audio/video recordings and transcript shall be 
voluntary with effect from April 01, 2021 and mandatory with effect from April 01, 2022;”

[Page 90]
90 
 
  i. The audio recordings shall be promptly made available on the website and in 
any case, before the  next trading day or within twenty -four hours from the 
conclusion of such calls, whichever is earlier; 
  ii. the video recordings, if any, shall be made available on the website wit hin 
forty-eight hours from the conclusion of such calls; 
  iii. the transcripts of such calls shall be made available on the website along with 
simultaneous submission to recognized stock exchanges within five working 
days of the conclusion of such calls:  
 Provided that—  
  (a) The information under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of this clause shall be hosted on 
the website of the listed entity for a minimum period of two years and thereafter 
as per the preservation  policy of the listed entity in terms of clause  (b) of 
regulation 9. 
  (b) The information under sub -clause (iii) of this clause shall be hosted on the 
website of the listed entity for a minimum period of five years and preserved in 
accordance with clause (b) of regulation 9.]  
 
(p) new name and the old name of the listed entity for a continuous period of one year, 
from the date of the last name change; 
(q) items in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 47 . 
451[(r) With effect from October 1, 2018, all credit ratings obtained by the entity for all 
its outstanding instruments, updated immediately as and when there is any revision 
in any of the ratings. 
(s) separate audited financial statements of each subsidiary of the listed entity in 
respect of a relevant financial year, uploaded at least 21 days prior to the date of the 
annual general meeting which has been called to inter alia consider accounts of that 
financial year]: 
452[Provided that a listed entity, which has a subsidiary incorporated outside India— 
(a) where such subsidiary is statutorily required to prepare c onsolidated 
financial statement under any law of the country of its incorporation, the 
requirement of this proviso shall be met if consolidated financial statement of 
such subsidiary is placed on the website of the listed entity; 
(b) where such subsidiary is not required to get its financial statement 
audited under any law of the country of its incorporation and which does not 
get such financial statement audited, the holding Indian listed entity may place 
such unaudited financial statement on its website a nd where such financial 
statement is in a language other than English, a translated copy of the financial 
statement in English shall also be placed on the website; 
(t) secretarial compliance report as per sub-regulation (2) of regulation 24A of these 
regulations;  
(u) disclosure of the policy for determination of materiality of events or information 
required under clause (ii), sub-regulation (4) of regulation 30 of these regulations; 
                                                           
451 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulation s, 2018, 
w.e.f. the date specified. 
452 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.

[Page 91]
91 
 
(v) disclosure of contact details of key managerial personnel who are auth orized for 
the purpose of determining materiality of an event or information and for the 
purpose of making disclosures to stock exchange(s) as required under sub -
regulation (5) of regulation 30 of these regulations; 
(w) disclosures under sub-regulation (8) of regulation 30 of these regulations; 
(x) statements of deviation(s) or variation(s) as specified in regulation 32 of these 
regulations; 
(y) dividend distribution policy by listed entities based on market capitalization as 
specified in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 43A; 
(z) annual return as provided under section 92 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
rules made thereunder 453[;]] 
454[(za) Employee Benefit Scheme Documents, excluding commercial secrets and 
such other information that would affect competitive position of the listed entity, 
framed in terms of the provisions of Securities  and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021:  
Provided that redaction of information under clause (za) above from the 
Employee Benefit Scheme document shall be approved by the board of directors 
of the listed entity and shall be in compliance with guidelines as may be specified 
by the Board:] 
455[Provided that for the purpose of compliance with this sub-regulation, the listed 
entity may provide the exact link to the webpage of each of the recognized stock 
exchanges where such information has already been made available by the listed 
entity.] 
 
(3)  (a) The listed entity shall ensure that the contents of the website are correct.  
(b)  The listed entity shall update any change in the content of its website within two 
working days from the date of such change in content.  
 
 
Advertisements in Newspapers. 
47.  (1) 456[The listed entity shall  publish an advertisement in the newspaper, w ithin forty 
eight hours of  conclusion of the meeting of board of directors at which the financial 
                                                           
453 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Oblig ations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
454 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
455 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
456 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the substitution, the sub -regulation read as 
under- 
“(1). The listed entity shall publish the following information in the newspaper: 
(a) [***] 
(b) financial results, as specified in regulation 33, along-with the modified opinion(s) or reservation(s), 
if any, expressed by the auditor: 
Provided that if the listed entity has submitted both standalone and consolidated financial results, 
the listed entity shall publish consolidated financial results along-with (1) Turnover, (2) Profit before 
tax and (3) Profit after tax, on a stand-alone basis, as a foot note; and a reference to the places, such 
as the website of listed entity and stock exchange(s), where the standalone results of the listed entity 
are available.   
(c)  [***] 
(d) notices given to shareholders by advertisement.”

[Page 92]
92 
 
results were approved, containing a Quick Response code and the details of the webpage 
where complete financial results of the listed entity, as specified in regulation 33, along-
with the  modified opinion(s) or reservation(s), if any, expressed by the auditor, is 
accessible to the investors: 
 
Nothing provided under this regulation shall preclude a listed entity from publishing, if 
it so chooses, the financial results in terms of regulation 33 along -with the modified 
opinion(s) or reservation(s), if any, expressed by the auditor in the newspaper as per the 
format specified within 48 hours of conclusion of the meeting of the board of directors 
at which the financial results were approved.] 
 
(2) 457[***]  
 
(3) 458[***] 
  
(4) The information at sub -regulation (1) shall be published in at least one English language 
national daily newspaper circulating in the whole or substantially the whole of India and in 
one daily newspaper published in the language of the region, where the registered office of 
the listed entity is situated:  
Provided that the requirements of this regulation shall not be applicable in case of listed 
entities which have listed their specified securities on SME Exchange.  
 
Accounting Standards.  
48. The listed entity shall comply with all the applicable and notified Accounting Standards 
from time to time.  
  
                                                           
457 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as under- 
“(2) The listed entity shall give a reference in the newspaper publication, in sub -regulation (1), to link of the 
website of listed entity and stock exchange(s), where further details are available.”  
458 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation read as under- 
“(3) The listed entity shall publish the informati on specified in sub -regulation (1) in the newspaper 
simultaneously with the submission of the same to the stock exchange(s).  
Provided that financial results at clause (b) of sub-regulation (1), shall be published within 48 hours of conclusion 
of the meeting of board of directors at which the financial results were approved.”

[Page 93]
93 
 
CHAPTER V  
OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS NON-
CONVERTIBLE 459[***] SECURITIES 460[***] 
 
 
Applicability. 
49. 461[(1)The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to a listed entity which has listed 
its non-convertible securities on a recognised stock exchange in accordance with 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non -Convertible 
Securities) Regulations, 2021.] 
 
462(2)[***]  
 
463[Explanation (1) - For the purpose of this chapter, if the listed entity has listed its non -
convertible redeemable preference shares, perpetual non -cumulative preference shares or 
instruments of nature similar to perpetual non-cumulative preference shares, the reference to 
“interest” in this chapter shall be read as “dividend”.] 
 
464[Explanation (2) - For the purpose of this chapter, “default” shall mean non -payment of 
interest/dividend or principal amount in full on the pre-agreed date and shall be recognized at 
the first instance of delay in servicing of any interest/dividend or principal amount.] 
 
 
                                                           
459 Omitted the word “DEBT” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
460 Omitted the words “NON-CONVERTIBLE REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES OR BOTH” by the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021.  
461 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows:  
“(1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to a listed entity which has listed its ‘Non-convertible 
Debt Securities’ and/or ‘Non -Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares’ on a recognised stock 
exchange in accordance with Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt 
Securities) Regulations, 2008 or Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non -
Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares) Regulations, 2013 respectively.” 
462 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before omission, sub-regulation (2) read as follows: 
“The provisions of this chap ter shall also be applicable to “perpetual debt instrument” and "perpetual 
non-cumulative preference share” listed by banks.”  
463 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, Explanation (1) read as follows:  
“Explanation (1). - For the purpose of this chapter, “Bank" means any bank included in the Second 
Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.” 
464 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, Explanation (2) read as follows: 
“Explanation (2).- For the purpose of this chapter, if the listed entity has listed its non -convertible 
redeemable preference shares: 
(i) The reference to “interest” may also read as dividend; 
(ii) The provisions concerning debenture trustees and security creation (or asset cover or charge on 
assets) shall not be applicable for “non-convertible redeemable preference shares”.”

[Page 94]
94 
 
Intimation to stock exchange(s). 
50. 465[(1) The listed entity shall give prior intimation to the stock exchange of at least two 
working days in advance, excluding the date of the intimation and the date of the 
meeting of the board of directors, about the Board meeting in which any of the 
following proposals is to be considered: 
(a) an alteration in the form or nature of non -convertible securities that are listed 
on the stock exchange or in the rights or privileges of the holders thereof; 
(b) an alteration in the date of the interest/ dividend/ redemption payment of 
non-convertible securities;  
(c) financial results viz. quarterly or annual, as the case may be;  
(d) fund raising by way of issuance of non-convertible securities; or  
(e) any matter affecting the rights or interests of holders of non -convertible 
securities.] 
 
466[(2) The listed entity shall also intimate the stock exchange not later than the date of 
commencement of dispatch of notices, in case of: 
(a) any annual general meeting or extraordinary general meeting that is proposed 
to be held for obtaining shareholder approval for the proposals at clauses (c) and 
(d) under sub-regulation (1) of this regulation;  
(b) any meeting of the holders of non -convertible securities in relation to the 
proposal at clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation.] 
 
467[(3)***] 
 
468[(4) The disclosures to the stock exchanges shall be made by a listed entity in XBRL 
format in accordance with the guidelines specified by the stock exchanges from time to 
time.] 
 
 
 
                                                           
465 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows:  
“(1) The listed entity shall give prior intimation to the stock exchange(s)  at least eleven working days 
before the date on and from which the interest on debentures and bonds, and redemption amount of 
redeemable shares or of debentures and bonds shall be payable.” 
466 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as follows: 
“(2) The listed entity shall intimate the stock exchange(s) , its intention to raise funds through new non -
convertible debt securities or non -convertible redeemable preference shares it proposes to list either 
through a public issue or on private placement basis, prior to issuance of such securities:  
Provided that the above intimation may be given prior to the meeting of board of directors wherein the 
proposal to raise funds through new non convertible debt securities or non -convertible redeemable 
preference shares shall be considered.” 
467 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regula tions, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before omission, sub-regulation (3) read as follows: 
“(3) The listed entity shall intimate to the stock exchange(s), at least two working days in advance, 
excluding the date of the intimation and date of the meeting, regarding the meeting of its board of directors, 
at which the recommendation or declaration of issue of non convertible debt securities or any other matter 
affecting the rights or interests of holders of non convertible debt securities or non convertible redeemable 
preference shares is proposed to be considered.” 
468 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 95]
95 
 
Disclosure of information having bearing on performance/operation of listed entity 
and/or price sensitive information.  
51. (1) The listed entity shall promptly inform the stock exchange(s) of all information 
having bearing on the performance/operation of the listed entity, price sensitive 
information or any action that shall affect payment of interest or dividend 469[or 
redemption of non-convertible securities].  
470[Explanation - The expression ‘promptly inform’, shall imply that the stock exchange shall 
be informed as soon as reasonably possible but not later than twenty-four hours from the date 
of occurrence of the event or rece ipt of information. In case the disclosure is made after 
twenty-four hours of the date of occurrence of the event or receipt of information, the listed 
entity shall, along with such disclosures provide an explanation for the delay] 
 
471[(2) Without p rejudice to the generality of sub -regulation(1), the listed entity who has 
472[listed non-convertible securities] shall make disclosures as specified in Part B of Schedule 
III.] 
 
473[(3) The listed entity shall disclose on its website, all such events or information which have 
been disclosed to the stock exchange(s) under this regulation and such disclosures shall be 
hosted on the website of the listed entity for a minimum period of five years and thereafter as 
per the archival policy of the listed entity, as disclosed on its website.] 
 
Financial Results. 
52. 474[(1) The listed entity shall prepare and submit un-audited or audited quarterly and year 
to date standalone financial results on a quarterly basis in the format as specified by the 
Board within forty- five days from the end of the quarter, other than last quart er, to the 
recognised stock exchange(s):  
                                                           
469 Substituted for “ of non -convertible preference shares or redemption of non convertible debt securities or 
redeemable preference shares” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
470 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, the Explanation read as follows: 
“Explanation.- The expression ‘promptly inform’, shall imply that the stock exchange must be in formed 
as soon as practically possible and without any delay and that the information shall be given first to the 
stock exchange(s) before providing the same to any third party.” 
471 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as follows:  
“Without prejudice to the generality of sub -regulation(1), the listed entity who has issued or is issuing 
non-convertible debt securities and/or non-convertible redeemable preference shares shall make 
disclosures as specified in Part B of Schedule III.” 
472 Substituted for “ issued or is issuing non -convertible debt securities and/or non -convertible redeemable 
preference shares” by the SEBI (Listing O bligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
473 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
474 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, sub-regulation (1) and the proviso read as follows:  
“(1)The listed entity shall prepare and submit un -audited or audited financial results on a half yearly 
basis in the format as specified by the Board within forty five days from the end of the half year to the 
recognised stock exchange(s). 
[Provided that in case of entities which have listed their equity shares and debt securities, a copy of 
the financial results submitted to stock exchanges shall be provided to Debenture Trustees on the same 
day the information is submitted to stock exchanges.]”

[Page 96]
96 
 
475[Provided that for the last quarter of the financial year, the listed entity shall submit  
un-audited or audited quarterly and year to date standalone financial results within sixty 
days from the end of the quarter to the recognised stock exchange(s):] 
Provided 476[further] that in case of entities which have listed their debt securities, 
a copy of the financial results submitted to stock exchanges shall also be provided 
to Debenture Trustees on the same day 477[***].]  
(2) The listed entity shall comply with following requirements with respect to preparation, 
approval, authentication and publication of annual and 478[quarterly] financial results:  
 
(a) 479[Un-audited financial results on quarterly basis shall be accompanied by limited 
review report prepared by the statutory auditors of the listed entity, in the format as 
specified by the Board:  
Provided that in case of issuers whose accounts are audited by the Comptroller 
and Auditor General of India, the report shall be provided by any practising 
Chartered Accountant.] 
  
(b) 480[The quarterly financial results submitted shall be appr oved by the board of 
directors.] 
 
481[(ba) The financial results submitted to the stock exchange shall be signed by the 
chairperson or managing director, or a whole time director or in the absence of all of 
them, it shall be signed by any other director of the listed entity who is duly authorized 
by the board of directors to sign the financial results.] 
  
(c) The audited results for the year shall be submitted to the recognised stock 
exchange(s) in the same format as is applicable for 482[quarterly] financial results. 
 
                                                           
475 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requi rements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022. 
476 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022. 
477 The words “the information is submitted to stock exchanges” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 
14.11.2022. 
478 Substituted for “half -yearly” by t he SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
479 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, clause (a) and the proviso read as follows:  
“(a) Un-audited financial results shall be accompanied by limited review report prepared by the statutory 
auditors of the listed entity or in case of public sector undertakings, by any practising Chartered 
Accountant, in the format as specified by the Board: 
 Provided that if the listed entity intimates in advance to the stock exchange(s) that it shall submit to 
the stock exchange(s) its annual audited results within sixty days from the end of the financial year, 
un-audited financial results for the last half year accompanied by limited review report by the 
auditors need not be submitted to stock exchange(s). “ 
480 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as under- 
“(b) The quarterly results shall be taken on record by the board of directors and signed by the managing director 
/ executive director.” 
481 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
482 Substituted for “half -yearly” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021.

[Page 97]
97 
 
(d) 483[The annual audited standalone and consolidated financial r esults for the 
financial year shall be submitted to the stock exchange(s) within sixty days from 
the end of the financial year along with the audit report: 
484[Provided that issuers, which are required to be audited by the Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India under applicable law, shall submit: 
(i)  un-audited financial results along with the limited review report issued by 
the Comptroller and Auditor General of India or an auditor appointed by the 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India or a Practising Chartered 
Accountant, to the stock exchange(s), within sixty days from the end of the 
financial year; and 
(ii) the financial results, audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of 
India, to the stock exchange(s), within nine months from the end of the 
financial year.] 
(e) Modified opinion(s) in 485[audit reports/limited review reports] that have a bearing 
on the interest payment/ dividend payment pertaining to non -convertible 
486[securities]/ redemption or principal repayment capacity of the listed entity shall 
be appropriately and adequately addressed by the board of directors while publishing 
the accounts for the said period.  
 
487[(f) 488[***]] 
 
489[(2A) The listed entity shall submit a statement of assets and liabilities and statement of cash 
flows as at the end of every half year, by way of a note, along with the financial results.] 
 
                                                           
483 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, clause (d) read as follows:  
“(d) If the listed entity opts to submit un -audited financial results for the last half year accompanied by 
limited review report by the auditors, it shall also submit audited financial results for the entire financial 
year, as soon as they are approved by the board of directors.”  
 
484 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022. Prior to substitution proviso to clause (d) read as under: 
“Provided that issuers, who are being audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, shall adopt the 
following two step process for disclosure of the annual audited financial results:  
(i) The first level aud it shall be carried out by the auditor appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General 
of India, who shall audit the financials of the listed entity and such financial results shall be submitted to the 
Stock Exchange(s) within sixty days from the end of the financial year.  
(ii) After the completion of audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, the financial results shall 
be submitted to the Stock exchange(s) within nine months from the end of the financial year. ” 
485 Substituted for “audit reports” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations an d Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
486 Substituted for “ redeemable debentures” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
487 Inserted by the S EBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
488 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022. Prior to omission clause (f) read as under: 
“The listed entity shall also submit as part of its standalone or consolidated financial results for the half year, 
by way of a note, a statement of assets and liabilities and statement of cash flows as at the end of the half year.” 
489 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022.

[Page 98]
98 
 
(3) (a) The annual audited financial results shall be submitted along with the annual audit report 
and [Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (applicable only] 490 for audit report 
with modified opinion[)]491[;]492  
  
 [Provided that, in case of audit reports with unmodified opinion, the listed entity shall furnish 
a declaration to that effect to the Stock Exchange(s) while publishing the annual audited 
financial results.]493 
 
(b) 494[***] 
 
(c) [***]495 
 
(d) The applicable [format]496 of [Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (for audit 
report with modified opinion)]497 shall be [in the manner as]498 specified by the Board 
[***]499. 
 
(4) 500[The listed entity, while submitting quarterly and annual financial results, shall disclose 
                                                           
490 Substituted for ‘either Form A for audit report with unmodified  opinion, or Form B’ by SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016. 
491 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
01.04.2016. 
492 Substituted for the symbol ‘.’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016. 
493 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
01.04.2016. 
494 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. Prior to omission, clause (b) read as follows: 
“The Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (for audit report with modified opinion and the 
accompanying annual audit report submitted in terms of clause (a) shall be reviewed by the stock 
exchange(s).;” 
495 Omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
01.04.2016. Prior to omission, sub regulation (3) read as follows: 
‘The listed entity shall on the direction issued by the Board, carry out the necessary steps, for rectification of 
modified opinion and/or submission of revised pro -forma financial results, in the manner specifi ed in Schedule 
VIII’ 
496 Substituted for ‘formats’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016 
497 Substituted for ‘Form A and Form B’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016 
498 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
01.04.2016. 
499 The words ‘from time to time’  omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirem ents) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016 
500 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022. Prior to substitution, sub -regulation 4 read as: “The 
listed entity, while submitting [quarterly] / annual financial results, shall disclose the following line items along 
with the financial results: 
 (a)  [***] 
 (b)  [***] 
(c) debt-equity ratio; 
(d)  [***] 
(e)  [***] 
(f) debt service coverage ratio;  
(g) interest service coverage ratio; 
(h) outstanding redeemable preference shares (quantity and value); 
(i) capital redemption reserve/debenture redemption reserve;

[Page 99]
99 
 
the following line items along with the financial results: 
(a) debt-equity ratio; 
(b) debt service coverage ratio; 
(c) interest service coverage ratio; 
(d) outstanding redeemable preference shares (quantity and value); 
(e) capital redemption reserve/debenture redemption reserve; 
(f) net worth; 
(g) net profit after tax; 
(h) earnings per share: 
(i) current ratio; 
(j) long term debt to working capital; 
(k) bad debts to Account receivable ratio; 
(l) current liability ratio; 
(m) total debts to total assets; 
(n) debtors’ turnover; 
(o) inventory turnover; 
(p) operating margin percent; 
(q) net profit margin percent: 
Provided that if the information mentioned in sub-regulation (4) above is not applicable to 
the listed entity, it shall disclose such other ratio/equivalent financial information, as may be 
required to be maintained under applicable laws, if any.] 
  501[***] 
 
502(5)[***]} 
 
(6) The listed entity which has listed its non convertible redeemable preference shares shall 
make the following additional disclosures as notes to financials: 
                                                           
(j) net worth; 
(k) net profit after tax; 
(l) earnings per share: 
 [(m) current ratio; 
(n) long term debt to working capital;  
(o) bad debts to Account receivable ratio;  
(p) current liability ratio;  
(q) total debts to total assets;  
(r) debtors turnover;  
(s) inventory turnover;  
(t) operating margin (%);  
(u) net profit margin (%);  
(v) sector specific equivalent ratios, as applicable.] 
Provided that the requirement of disclosures of debt service coverage ratio [***] and interest service coverage 
ratio shall not be applicable for banks or  [non-banking financial com panies/housing finance companies] 
registered with the Reserve Bank of India.” 
501 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth  Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before omission, the second proviso read as follows: 
“Provided further that the requirement of this sub- regulation shall not be applicable in case of unsecured 
debt instruments issued by regulated financial sector entities eligible for meeting capital requirements as 
specified by respective regulators.” 
502 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before omission, sub-regulation (5) read as follows: 
“(5) The listed entity shall, within seven working days from the date of submission of the information 
required under sub- regulation (4), submit to stock exchange(s), a certificate signed by debenture trustee 
that it has taken note of the contents.”

[Page 100]
100 
 
(a) 503[***] 
(b) free reserve as on the end of half year; 
(c) securities premium account balance (if redemption of redeemable preference share 
is to be done at a premium, such premium may  be appropriated from securities 
premium account):  
Provided that disclosure on securities premium account balance may be provided 
only in the year in which non convertible redeemable preference shares are due for 
redemption; 
 
(d) track record of dividend payment on non convertible redeemable preference shares: 
Provided that in case the dividend has been deferred at any time, then the actual date 
of payment shall be disclosed; 
   
(e) breach of any covenants under the terms of the non convertible redeemable 
preference shares: 
Provided that in case a listed entity is planning a fresh issuance of shares whose end 
use is servicing of the non convertible redeemable preference sh ares (whether 
dividend or principle redemption), then the same shall be disclosed whenever the 
listed entity decided on such issuances.  
 
(7) 504[The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange(s), along with the quarterly financial 
results, a statement  indicating the utilisation of the i ssue proceeds of non -convertible 
securities, in such format as may be specified by the Board, till such proceeds of issue have 
been fully utilised or the purpose for which the proceeds were raised has been achieved.] 
  
 
 (7A) 505[The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange(s), along with the quarterly 
financial results, a statement disclosing material deviation(s) (if any) in the use of issue 
proceeds of non-convertible securities from the objects of the issue, in such format as may 
be specified by the Board, till such proceeds have been fully utilised or the purpose for  
which the proceeds were raised has been achieved. ] 
 
(8) The listed entity shall, within two 506[working] days of the conclusion of the meeting of the 
board of directors, publish the financial results and 507[the line items] referred to in sub -
                                                           
503 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth  Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before omission, clause (a) read as follows: 
“(a)profit for the half year and cumulative profit for the year;” 
504 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022. Prior to substitution, sub -regulation 7 read as under: 
“The listed entity shall within forty -five days from the end of every quarter submit to the stock exchange, a 
statement indicating the utilization of issue proceeds of non -convertible securities, which shall be continued 
to be given till such time the issue proceeds have been fully utilised or the purpose for which these proceeds 
were raised has been achieved.” 
505 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation 7A read as under: 
“In case of any material deviation in the use of proceeds as compared to the objects of the issue, the same 
shall be indicated in the format as specified by the Board.” 
506 Substituted f or “ calendar” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
507 Substituted for “statement” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022.

[Page 101]
101 
 
regulation (4), in at least one English national daily newspaper circulating in the whole or 
substantially the whole of India508[:] 
509[Provided that if the listed entity has submitted both standalone and consolidated financial 
results, to the stock exchange(s), it shall publish consolidated financial results along with 
the line items referred to in sub-regulation (4), in the newspaper510[:]]  
 
511[Provided further that listed entities may publish only a window advertisement in the 
newspapers that refers to a Quick Response Code and the link of the website of the listed 
entity and stock exchange(s), where such financial results are available and capable of being 
accessed by the investors subject to the following conditions:  
i. For non-convertible securities outstanding as on the date of notification of this proviso, 
the listed entity has obtained the prior approval from the debenture trustee; 
ii. In case of any issuances after the date of notification of this proviso, the listed entity shall 
either make a disclosure in the offer document regarding the window advertisement in 
the newspapers or obtain prior approval from the debenture trustee.] 
 
Annual Report.  
53.  512[(1)]The annual report of the listed entity shall contain disclosures as specified in 
Companies Act, 2013 513[or the statute under which suc h listed entity is constituted,] 
along with the following: 
(a) audited financial statements i.e. balance sheets, profit and loss accounts etc [, and 
Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications as stipulated in regulation 52(3)(a), if 
applicable;]514 
(b) cash flow statement presented only under the indirect method as prescribed in 
Accounting Standard-3/ Indian Accounting Standard 7, mandated under Section 
133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with relevant rules framed thereunder or by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, whichever is applicable; 
(c) auditors report; 
(d) directors report; 
(e) name of the debenture trustees with full contact details ; 
(f) related party disclosures as specified in Para A of Schedule V.  
 
515[(2) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange and the debenture trustee and 
publish on its website- 
                                                           
508 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022. 
509 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022. 
510 Substituted for “ .” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 10.7.2024. 
511 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 10.7.2024. 
512 Numbered as sub -regulation (1) by the SEBI  (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
513 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.11.2025. 
514 Substituted for the symbol ‘;’ by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016 
515 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations , 2025 w.e.f. 19.11 .2025. Prior to the substitution, the sub -regulation read as 
under-

[Page 102]
102 
 
 
(a) a copy of the annual report, on  or before the date of dispatch of the same to its  
shareholders or the date of submission to the Central Government or the State  
Government, as the case may be; and 
 
(b) in the event of any changes to the annual report, the revised copy along with the 
details and explanation for the changes, within 48 hours after the annual general 
meeting or on or before the date of dispatch of the same to its shareholders or the date 
of submission to the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may 
be.] 
 
516[Security Cover]. 
54. 517[(1) In respect of its 518[secured] listed non-convertible debt securities, the listed entity 
shall maintain hundred per cent. 519[security cover or higher security cover ] as per the 
terms of offer document/Information Memorandum and/or Debenture Trust Deed, 
sufficient to discharge the principal amount  520[and the interest thereon] at all times for 
the non-convertible debt securities issued.] 
 
(2) The listed entity shall disclose to the stock exchange in quarterly, half-yearly, year-
to-date and annual financial statements, as applicable, the extent and nature of security 
created and maintained with respect to its secured listed non-convertible debt securities. 
 
521[***] 
522[(3) The listed entity shall disclose the 523[security cover] available in case of non -
convertible debt securities along with its financial results in the format as specified by 
the Board.] 
                                                           
“(2) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange and the debenture trustee and publish on its 
website-  
(a) a copy of the annual report sent to the shareholders along with the notice of the annual general 
meeting, not later than the date of commencement of dispatch to its shareholders; and  
(b) in the event of any changes to the annual report, the revised co py along with the details and 
explanation for the changes, not later than 48 hours after the annual general meeting.” 
516 Substituted for the words “Asset Cover” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 11.4.2022. 
517 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. October 08, 2020. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows: 
“(1) In respect of its listed non-convertible debt securities, the listed entity shall maintain hundred percent. asset 
cover sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times for the non-convertible debt securities issued.”  
518 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 11.4.2022. 
519 Substituted for the words “asset cover or higher asset cover ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 11.4.2022.  
520 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 11.4.2022. 
521 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. October 08, 2020. Prior to the omission, sub-regulation (3) read as follows: 
“(3) The requirement specified in sub-regulation (1), shall not be applicable in case of unsecured debt securities 
issued by regulated financial sector entities eligible for meeting capital requirements as specified by respective 
regulators.” 
522 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement s) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
523 Substituted for the words “asset cover” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 11.4.2022.

[Page 103]
103 
 
 
Credit Rating. 
55. Each rating obtained by the listed entity with respect to non -convertible 524[***] 
securities shall be reviewed at least once a year by a credit rating agency registered by 
the Board.  
 
Documents and Intimation to Debenture Trustees.  
56.  (1) The listed entity 525[shall, as soon as possible, and in any case not later than twenty-
four hours from the occurrence of the event or receipt of information, unless otherwise 
specified, forward the following to the debenture trustee]:  
(a)  a copy of the annual report at the sam e time as it is issued along with  a copy of 
certificate from the listed entity's auditors in respect of utilisation  of funds during 
the implementation period of the project for which the funds have been raised:  
Provided that in the case of debentures or p reference shares issued for financing 
working capital or general corporate purposes or for capital raising purposes the 
copy of the auditor's certificate may be submitted at the end of each financial year 
till the funds have been fully utilised or the purp ose for which these funds were 
intended has been achieved. 
(b)  a copy of all notices, resolutions and circulars relating to-  
(i) new issue of non convertible debt securities at the same time as they are sent 
to shareholders/ holders of non convertible debt securities;  
(ii) the meetings of holders of non-convertible debt securities at the same time as 
they are sent to the holders of non convertible debt securities or advertised in 
the media including those relating to proceedings of the meetings;  
(c)  intimations regarding : 
(i) any revision in the rating; 
(ii) any default in timely payment of interest or redemption or both in respect of 
the non convertible debt securities; 
(iii) failure to create charge on the assets; 
526[(iv) all covenants of the issue (including side letters, accelerated payment clause, 
etc.)] 
527[(d) a half-yearly certificate regarding maintenance of hundred percent 528[security cover or 
higher security cover] as per the terms of offer document/ Information  Memorandum and/or 
Debenture Trust Deed, including compliance with all the covenants, in respect of listed non -
                                                           
524 The word “debt” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
525 Substituted for the words “ shall forward the following to the debenture trustee promptly ” by the Securities 
and Exchang e Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. October 27, 2025.  
526 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. October 08, 2020. 
527 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. October 08, 2020. Prior to the substitution, clause (d) read as follows: 
“a half-yearly certificate regarding maintenance of h undred percent. asset cover in respect of listed 
non convertible debt securities, by either a practicing company secretary or a practicing chartered 
accountant, along with the half yearly financial results: 
Provided that submission of such half yearly certificates is not applicable in cases where a listed entity 
is a bank or non banking financial companies registered with Reserve Bank of India or where bonds 
are secured by a Government guarantee.” 
528 Substituted for the words “asset cover or higher asset cov er” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 11.4.2022.

[Page 104]
104 
 
convertible debt securities, by the statutory auditor, along with the 529[financial results, in the 
manner and format as specified by the Board]: 
  Provided that the submission of 530[this] certificate is not applicable where bonds are 
secured by a Government guarantee.] 
 
531[(1A) The listed entity shall also disclose to the Debenture Trustee at the same time as it 
has intimated to the stock exchange, all material events and/or information as disclosed under 
regulation 51of these regulations in so far as it relates to the interest, principal, issue and terms 
of non-convertible debt securities, rating, creation of charge on the assets, notices, resolutions 
and meetings of holders of non-convertible debt securities.] 
 
(2) The listed entity shall forward to the debenture trustee any such information sought and 
provide access to relevant books of accounts as required by the debenture trustee.  
 
(3) The listed entity may, subject to the consent of the debenture trustee, send the information 
stipulated in sub-regulation (1), in electronic form/fax.  
 
 532[Intimation to stock exchanges 
57. The listed entity shall submit a certificate to the stock exchange  regarding status of payment 
of interest or dividend or repayment or redemption of principal of non-convertible securities, 
within one working day of it becoming due, in the manner and format as specified by the 
Board from time to time.] 
 
 
Documents and information to holders of non - convertible 533[***] securities 534[***] 
58. (1) The listed entity shall send the following documents: 
                                                           
529 Substituted for the words “ half-yearly financial results” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Discl osure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
530 Substituted for the words “half yearly” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
531 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
532 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.06. 2023. Prior to its substitution, Regulation 57 read as under: 
“Intimations/ other submissions to stock exchange(s).  
57. (1) The listed entity shall submit a certificate to the stock exchange within one working day of the interest 
or dividend or principal becoming due regarding status of payment in case of non-convertible securities. 
(2) [omitted]  
(3) The listed entity shall forward to the stock exchange any other information in the manner and format as 
specified by the Board from time to time.  
 (4) The listed entity shall within five working days prior to the beginning of the quarter provide details for 
all the non -convertible securities for which interest/dividend/principal obligations shall be payable during 
the quarter. 
 (5) The listed entity shall within seven working days from the end of the quarter provide:  
(a) a certificate confirming the payment of interest/dividend/principal obligations for non -convertible 
securities which were due in that quarter; and  
(b) the details of all unpai d interest/dividend/principal obligations in relation to non -convertible 
securities at the end of the quarter.” 
 
533 The word “debt” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 13.8.2021. 
534 The words “and non-convertible preference shares” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 13.8.2021.

[Page 105]
105 
 
(a) 535[Soft copies of th e full annual reports to all the holders of non-convertible 
securities who have registered their email address(es) either with the listed entity or 
with any depository] ; 
536[(b) A letter providing the web-link including the exact path where complete details of 
the Annual Report is available, which may at the option of the listed entity, also 
include a static Quick Response  Code, to those holder(s) of non -convertible 
securities that have not registered their respective email addresses.] 
(c) Hard copies of full annual reports to those holders of non convertible 537[***] 
securities 538[***], who request for the same.  
 (d) 539[***]  
 
540[(1A) The listed entity shall send the documents referred to in sub -regulation (1), within the 
timelines specified in Section 136 of Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder or 
the provisions of the statute under which such listed entity is constituted: 
 
 Provided that in the absence of any timeline in the statute, the documents shall be sent 
on or before the date of dispatch of the same to its shareholders or the date of submission to 
the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be.] 
 
(2) The listed entity shall send the notice of all meetings of holders of non convertible debt 
securities and holders of non-convertible redeemable preference shares specifically stating 
that the provisions for appointment of proxy as mentioned in Section 105 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, shall be applicable for such meeting.  
 
(3) The listed entity shall send p roxy forms to holders of non convertible debt securities and 
non-convertible redeemable preference shares which shall be worded in such a manner that 
holders of these securities may vote either for or against each resolution. 
 
Structure of non convertible debt securities and non convertible redeemable preference 
shares.  
59. (1) The listed entity shall not make material modification without prior approval of the 
stock exchange(s) where the non convertible debt securities or non -convertible 
redeemable preference shares, as applicable, are listed, to :  
                                                           
535 Substituted for “Soft copies of full annual reports to all the holders of non convertible preference share who 
have registered their email address(es) for the purpose” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 13.8.2021. 
536 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.11.2025. Prior to the substitution, the clause read as under- 
“(b) Hard copy of statement containing the salient features of all the documents, as specified in Section 
136 of Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder to tho se holders of non convertible  securities 
who have not so registered;” 
537 The word “debt” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 13.8.2021. 
538 The words “and non-convertible preference shares” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 13.8.2021. 
539 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obliga tions and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 13.8.2021. Prior to the omission, clause (d) read as follows: 
“Half yearly communication as specified in sub -regulation (4) and (5) of regulation 52, to holders of 
non convertible debt securities and non convertible preference shares;” 
540 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.11.2025.

[Page 106]
106 
 
(a) the structure of the 541[non-convertible debt securities] debenture in terms of 
coupon, 542[***] redemption, or otherwise.  
(b) the structure of the non -convertible redeemable preference shares in terms of 
dividend 543[***], redemption, or otherwise. 
 
(2) The approval of the stock exchange referred to in sub -regulation (1) shall be made only 
after:  
(a) approval of the board of directors and the debenture trustee 544[***] and  
 
(b) 545[obtaining consent in writing of the holders of not less than three -fourths, by 
value of holders of that class of securities: 
Provided that the listed entity shall provide the facility of remote e -voting to 
facilitate such consent.]  
546[Draft Scheme of Arrangement and Scheme of Arrangement. 
59A. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of regulation 11, the listed entity that has listed non-
convertible debt securities or non -convertible redeemable preference shares, intends to 
undertake a scheme of arrangement or is involved in a scheme of arrangement under 
sections 230-234 and section 66 of the Companies Act, 2013, shall file the draft scheme of 
arrangement with the stock exchange(s), along with a non -refundable fee as specified in 
Schedule XI, for obtaining the No -objection letter, before filing of such scheme with the 
National Company Law Tribunal, in terms of the  requirements specified by the Board or 
stock exchange(s) from time to time. 
 
(2) The listed entity shall not file any scheme of arrangement under sections 230 -234 and 
section 66 of the Companies Act, 2013, with the National Company Law Tribunal unless 
it has obtained a No-objection letter from the stock exchange(s). 
 
(3) The listed entity shall place the No -objection letter of the stock exchange(s) before the  
National Company Law Tribunal at the time of seeking approval for the scheme of 
arrangement in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
 Provided that the validity of the No -objection letter of the stock exchange(s) shall be six 
months from the date of issuance, within which the draft scheme of arrangement shall be 
filed by the listed entity with the National Company Law Tribunal. 
 
                                                           
541 Substituted for “debenture” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
542 The word and symbol “conversion,” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
543 The words and symbol “of non -convertible preference shares payable, conversion” omitted by the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021.  
544 The words “in case of non -convertible debt securities” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021.  
545 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, clause (b) read as follows:  
“(b) after complying with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 including approval of the consent of 
requisite majority of holders of that class of securities.” 
546 Inserted by the Securiti es and Exchange Board o f India (Listing Obligations a nd Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022.

[Page 107]
107 
 
(4) Upon sanction of the Scheme by the National Company Law Tribunal, the listed entity 
shall submit such documents, to the stock exchange(s), as may be specified by the Board 
and/ or stock exchange(s) from time to time. 
 
(5) The listed entity shall ensure compliance with such other requirements as may be specified 
by the Board from time to time. 
 
(6) The requirements as specified under this regulation and under regulation 94A of these  
regulations shall not apply to a restructuring proposal approved as part of a resolution plan 
by the National Company Law Tribunal under section 31 of the Insolvency Code, subject 
to the  details being disclosed to the recognized stock exchanges within one day of the 
resolution plan being approved.] 
 
Record Date 
60. 547[(1) The listed entity shall fix a record date as per sub-regulation (7) of regulation 23 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non -Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021.] 
(2) The listed entity shall give notice in advance of at least 548[three] working days (excluding 
the date of intimation and the record date) to the recognised stock exchange (s) of the 
record date or of as many days as the stock exchange(s) may agree to or require specifying 
the purpose of the record date.  
 
Terms of non convertible debt securities and non convertible redeemable preference 
shares.  
61. (1) The listed entity shall ensure timely payment of i nterest or dividend of 549[non-
convertible debt securities and/or ] non-convertible redeemable preference shares or 
redemption payment:  
Provided that the listed entity shall not declare or distribute any dividend wherein it has 
defaulted in payment of interest on debt securities or redemption thereof or in creation 
of security as per the terms of the issue of debt securities: 
550[***]  
 
551(2)[***]  
                                                           
547 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  Prior to the substitution, the sub -regulation read as 
under- 
“(1) The listed entity shall fix a record date for purposes of payment of interest, dividend and payment of 
redemption or repayment amount or for such other purposes as specified by the stock exchange.” 
548 Substituted for the words “seven” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
549 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 13.8.2021. 
550 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 13.8.2021. Prior to the omission, the second proviso read as follows: 
“Provided further that this requirement shall not be applicable in case  of unsecured debt securities 
issued by regulated financial sector entities eligible for meeting capital requirements as specified by 
respective regulators.” 
551 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before omission, sub-regulation (2) read as follows: 
“(2) The listed entity shall not forfeit unclaimed int erest/dividend and such unclaimed interest/dividend 
shall be transferred to the ‘Investor Education and Protection Fund’ set up as per Section 125 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.”

[Page 108]
108 
 
 
(3) Unless the terms of issue provide otherwise, the listed entity shall not select any of its listed 
securities for redemption otherwise than pro rata basis or by lot. 
 
(4) The listed entity shall comply with requirements as specified in regulation 40 for tra nsfer 
552[and transmission] of securities including procedural requirements 553[as specified by the 
Board from time to time]. 
 
554[Dealing with unclaimed non-convertible securities and benefits accrued thereon. 
61A. (1) The listed entity shall not forfeit unclaimed interest/dividend/redemption amount. 
 
(2) Where the interest/dividend/redemption amount has not been claimed within thirty 
days from the due date of interest/ dividend / redemption payment, a listed entity shall 
within seven days from the date of expiry of the said period of thirty days, transfer the 
amount to an escrow account to be opened by the listed entity in any scheduled bank: 
Provided that the interest/ dividend/ redemption amount that is unclaimed and outstanding 
for a period of less than seven years as on the date of notification of this sub -regulation 
shall be transferred to the escrow account within thirty days, where it shall remain for the 
intervening period up to seven years. 
 
555[(3) The amount transferred to the escrow account that remains unclaimed and unpaid 
shall be transferred to the ‘Investor Education and Protection Fund’ in accordance with 
section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder: 
Provided that for listed entities which do not fall within the definition of “company” under 
the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder, the amount in the escrow account 
that remains unclaimed and unpaid for a period of seven years from the maturity date of 
the non -convertible securities, shall be  transferred to the Investor Protection and 
Education Fund created by the Board in terms of section 11 of the Act: 
 
Provided further that the amount transferred to the Investor Protection and Education fund 
shall not bear any interest.] 
 
                                                           
552 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations an d Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 25.4.2022. 
553 Substituted for the words and symbol “ specified in Schedule VII ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 14-07-
2026. 
554 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
555 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. Prior to its substitution, the sub -regulation (3) read as under: 
“(3) Any amount transferred to the escrow account that remains unclaimed for seven years shall be 
transferred to the  ‘Investor Education and Protection Fund’ constituted in terms of section 125 of the 
Companies Act, 2013: 
Provided that for listed entities which do not fall within the definition of “company” under the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder, an y amount in the escrow account that remains unclaimed for 
seven years shall be transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund created by the Board in terms 
of section 11 of the Act: 
Provided further that the amount transferred to the Investor Protection and Education fund shall not bear 
any interest.”

[Page 109]
109 
 
556[(4) The unclaime d amount of a person that has been transferred to the Investor 
Protection and Education Fund in terms of this regulation, may be claimed in such manner 
as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
Website. 
62.  (1) The listed entity shall maintain a functional website containing the following  
information about the listed entity:-  
(a) details of its business;  
557[(aa) composition of the Board;] 
(b) 558[financial information including: 
(i) notice of meeting of the board of directors where financial results shall 
be discussed; 
(ii) financial results, on the conclusion of the meeting of the board of 
directors where the financial results were approved; 
(iii)complete copy of the annual report including balance sheet, profit and 
loss account, directors report, corporate governance report etc;] 
(c) contact information of the  designated officials of the listed entity who are 
responsible for assisting and handling investor grievances; 
(d) email address for grievance redressal and other relevant details; 
(e) name of the debenture trustees with full contact details; 
(f) the information, report, notices, call letters, circulars, proceedings, etc concerning 
non-convertible redeemable preference shares or non convertible debt securities; 
(g) all information and reports including compliance reports filed by the listed 
entity;  
(h) information with respect to the following 559[***]: 
(i) default by issuer to pay interest 560[***] or redemption amount; 
(ii) failure to create a charge on the assets; 
(iii) 561[***] 
562[(i) all credit ratings obtained by the entity for all its listed non -convertible 
securities, updated immediately upon any revision in the ratings;  
(j) statements of deviation(s) or variation(s) as specified in sub -regulation (7) and 
sub-regulation (7A) of regulation 52 of these regulations;  
(k) annual return as provided under section 92 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
rules made thereunder.]  
                                                           
556 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2023. 
557 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Discl osure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
558 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, clause (b) read as follows:  
“(b) financial information including complete copy of the annual report including balance sheet, profit 
and loss account, directors report etc;” 
559 The word “ events” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
560 The word “on” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
561 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendme nt) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before omission, sub-clause (iii) read as follows: 
“(iii) revision of rating assigned to the non convertible debt securities:”  
562 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment)  Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021.

[Page 110]
110 
 
 
563[(1A) The listed entities to whom regulations 15 to regulation 27 are applicable shall also 
make the following additional disclosures on their website:  
 
(a) composition of the various committees of the board of directors;  
(b) terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors;  
(c) code of conduct of the board of directors and senior management personnel;  
(d) details of establishment of vigil mechanism/ whistle blower policy;  
(e) criteria of making payments to non -executive directors, if the same has not been 
disclosed in the annual report;  
(f) secretarial compliance report as per sub -regulation (2) of regulation 24A of these 
regulations;  
(g) policy on dealing with related party transactions;  
(h) policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries;  
(i) details of familiarization programmes imparted to independent directors including 
the following details:-  
(i) number of programmes attended by the independent directors (during the year 
and on a cumulative basis till date),  
(ii) number of hours spent by the independent directors in such programmes 
(during the year and on cumulative basis till date), and  
(iii) other relevant details.] 
 
(2) The listed entity may also issue a press release with respect to the events specified in 
564[sub-regulations (1) and (1A)].  
 
(3) The listed entity shall ensure that the contents of the website are correct and updated at 
any given point of time.  
 
565[(4) The listed entity shall update any change in the content of its website within two 
working days from the date of such change in content.] 
 
 
 
 
566[Listing of subsequent issuances of non-convertible debt securities 
 
62A.  (1) A listed entity, whose non -convertible debt securities are listed shall list all non -
convertible debt securities, proposed to be issued on or after January 1, 2024, on 
the stock exchange(s).  
 
                                                           
563 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
564 Substituted for the word and symbol “ sub-regulation (1)” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations an d Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
565 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
566 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 20.09.2023.

[Page 111]
111 
 
(2)  A listed entity, whose subsequent issues of unlisted non-convertible debt securities 
made on or before December 31, 2023  are outstanding on the said date, may list 
such securities, on the stock exchange(s). 
 
(3)  A listed entity that proposes to list the non-convertible debt securities on the stock 
exchange(s) on or after January 1, 2024, shall list all outstanding unlisted non -
convertible debt securities previously issued on or after January 1, 2024, on the 
stock exchange(s) within three months from the d ate of the listing of the non -
convertible debt securities proposed to be listed. 
 
(4)  Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, no listed entity shall be 
required to list the following securities: 
(i)  Bonds issued under section 54EC of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961); 
(ii) Non-convertible debt securities issued pursuant to an agreement entered into 
between the listed entity of such securities and multilateral institutions; 
(iii) Non-convertible debt securities issued pursuant to an order of any court or 
Tribunal or regulatory requirement as stipulated by a financial sector 
regulator namely, the Board, Reserve Bank of India, Insurance Regulatory  
and Development Authority of India or  the Pension Fund and Regulatory 
Development Authority. 
 
(5)  The securities issued by the listed entity under clauses (ii) and (iii) of sub-regulation 
(4) shall be locked in and held till maturity by the investors and shall be 
unencumbered. 
 
(6)  A listed entity proposing to issue securities under sub-regulation (4) shall disclose 
to the stock exchanges on which its non -convertible debt securities are listed, all 
the key terms of such securities, including embedded options , security offered, 
interest rates, charges, commissions, premium (by any name called), period of 
maturity and such other details as may be required to be disclosed by the Board 
from time to time.]

[Page 112]
112 
 
567[CHAPTER VA 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NORMS FOR A LISTED ENTITY WHICH 
HAS LISTED ITS NON-CONVERTIBLE DEBT SECURITIES 
Definitions 
62B. (1) For the purpose of this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires- 
(a) “control” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the 
Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 
and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; and 
(b) “independent director” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it 
under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16 of these regulations: 
Provided that in case of a listed entity which is a body corporate, mandated 
to constitute its board of directors in the manner specified under the law 
under which it is established or is an entity set up under the public private 
partnership model/structure, the non - executive directors, other than a 
nominee director of such entity on its board of directors, shall be treated 
as independent directors.  
 
(c) “public private partnership” shall mean a public -private partnership 
between a  public  concessioning  authority  and  a  private  special purpose 
vehicle concessionaire selected on the basis of open competitive bidding 
or on the basis of an Memorandum of Understanding with the relevant 
authorities. 
 
(d) “senior management” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it 
under clause (d) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16 of these regulations. 
Applicability. 
62C. (1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to a listed entity which only has 
non-convertible debt securities listed, with an outstanding value of Rupees 
568[Five] Thousand Crore and above and does not have any listed specified 
securities. 
 
Explanation (1): —  The ‘high value debt listed entities’ shall be determined 
on 569[the] basis of value of principal outstanding of listed debt securities as on 
570[***]the date of notification of this amendment. 
Explanation (2): — The entities falling in sub-regulation (1) of the regulation 
62C shall be referred to a ‘high value debt listed entity’ (HVDLE) for the 
purpose of this chapter: 
                                                           
567 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.  
568 Substituted for the word “One” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.  
569 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
570 The words, numbers and symbols “March 31, 2025, irrespective of” omitted vide the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 
22.1.2026.

[Page 113]
113 
 
Provided that in case the value of the outstanding listed non -convertible debt 
securities becomes equal to or greater than the specified threshold of Rupees 
571[Five] Thousand Crore during the financial year, it shall ensure compliance 
with these provisions within six months from the date of such trigger and the 
disclosures of such compliance may be made in 572[the Corporate Governance 
Compliance Report on and from the ] third quarter, following the date of the 
trigger. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3, once the 
provisions of this Chapter become applicable to a ‘high value debt listed entity’, 
the said regulations shall continue 573[to] apply till the value of the outstanding 
listed debt securities as on March 31 in a year, reduces and remains below the 
specified threshold for a period of three consecutive financial years. 
Explanation: —The provisions of this sub-regulation shall become applicable with 
effect from April 01, 2025574[:] 
575[Provided that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not be applicable to 
entities which cease to be classified as HVDLEs in terms of revised threshold as 
per Regulation 62C(1).] 
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, in case of an Infrastructure 
Investment Trust register ed under the provisions of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, the 
governance norms specified under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 shall be applicable. 
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, in case of a Real Estate 
Investment Trust registered under the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Real Estate Investment Trust) Regulations, 2014, the governanc e norms 
specified under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trust) Regulations, 2014 shall be applicable. 
(5) The provisions as specified in regulation 62D shall not be applicable during the 
period in which a HVDLE is undergoing corporate insolvency resolution process 
under the Insolvency Code:  
Provided that the roles and responsibilities of the board of directors as specified 
under regulation 62D shall be fulfilled by the interim resolution professional or 
resolution professiona l in accordance with sections 17 or 23 of the Insolvency 
Code, as the case may be.  
                                                           
571 Substituted for the word “One” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
572 Substituted for the word s “corporate governance compliance report on and from”  vide the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 
w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
573 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
574 Substituted for the symbol “. ” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (L isting Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.  
575 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.

[Page 114]
114 
 
(6) The provisions as specified in regulations 62F, 62G, 62H and 62I shall not be 
applicable during the period in which a HVDLE is undergoing corporate 
insolvency resolution process under the Insolvency Code:  
Provided that the roles and responsibilities of the committees specified in the 
respective regulations shall be fulfilled by the interim resolution professional or 
resolution professional in accordance with section 17 or s ection 23 of the 
Insolvency Code, as the case may be.  
(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of Companies Act, 
2013 shall continue to apply, wherever applicable. 
 
Board of Directors 
62D. (1) The composition of board of directors of a HVDLE shall be as follows:  
(a) board of directors shall have an optimum combination of executive and 
non-executive directors with at least one woman director and not less than 
fifty per cent. of the board of directo rs shall comprise of non -executive 
directors;  
(b) where the chairperson of the board of directors is a non-executive director, 
at least one -third of the board of directors shall comprise of independent 
directors and where the listed entity does not have a regular non-executive 
chairperson, at least half of the board of directors shall comprise of 
independent directors:  
Provided that where the non -executive chairperson is a promoter of the 
listed entity or is related to any promoter or person occupying management 
positions at the level of board of director or at one level below the board of 
directors, at least half of the board of directors of the listed entity shall 
consist of independent directors.  
Explanation: — For the purpose of this clause, the expressio n “related to any 
promoter” shall have the following meaning:  
(i) if the promoter is a listed entity, its directors other than the 
independent directors, its employees or its nominees shall be deemed 
to be related to it;  
(ii) if the promoter is an unlist ed entity, its directors, its employees or 
its nominees shall be deemed to be related to it.  
 
(2) No HVDLE shall appoint a person or continue the directorship of any person as 
a non-executive director who has attained the age of seventy five years unless a 
special resolution is passed to that effect, in which case the 576[Explanatory 
Statement]annexed to the notice for such motion 577[,] shall indicate the 
justification for appointing such a person. 
                                                           
576 Substituted for the words “explanatory statement” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.  
 
577 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.

[Page 115]
115 
 
578[Provided that HVDLE shall ensure compliance with this sub-regulation at the 
time of appointment or re -appointment or any time prior to the non -executive 
director attaining the age of seventy-five years.] 
(3) The HVDLE shall ensure that approval of shareholders for appointment or re -
appointment of a person on the board of directors or as a manager is taken at the 
next general meeting or within a time period of three months from the date of 
appointment, whichever is earlier:  
579[Provided that the time taken to obtain the approval of regulatory, government 
or statutory authorities, wherever applicable, shall be excluded for the purposes of 
this clause:] 
Provided 580[further] that a public sector company shall ensure that the approval 
of the shareholders for appointment or re-appointment of a person on the board of 
directors or as a Manager is taken at the next general meeting: 
581[Provided further that the requirements specified in this clause shall not be 
applicable to appointment or re-appointment of a person nominated by a financial 
sector regulator, Court or Tribunal to the board of the HVDLE:  
Provided further that the requirement specified in this regulation shall not be 
applicable to a director nominated by a debenture trustee registered with the Board 
under a subscription agreement for the debentures issued by the HVDLE:] 
Provided further that the appointment or a re -appointment of a person, including 
as a managing director or a whole -time director or a manager, who was earlier 
rejected by the shareholders at a general meeting, shall be done only with the prior 
approval of the shareholders:  
Provided further that the statement referred to under sub-section (1) of section 102 
of the Companies Act, 2013, annexed to the notice to the shareholders, for 
considering the appointment or re -appointment of such a person earlier rejected 
by the shareholders shall contain a detailed explanation and justification by the 
nomination and remuneration committee (if constituted) and the board of directors 
for recommending such a person for appointment or re-appointment. 
(4) The continuation of a director serving on the board of directors of a listed entity 
shall be subject to the approval of the shareholders in a general meeting at least 
once in every five years from the date of their appointment or reappointment, as 
the case may be:  
Provided that the continuation of the director serving on the board of directors of 
a HVDLE as on March 31, 2025, without the approval of the shareholders for the 
last five years or more shall be subject to the approval of shareholders in the first 
general meeting to be held after March 31, 2025:  
Provided further that the requirement specified in this regulation shall not be 
applicable to the Whole -Time Director, Managing Director, Manager, 
Independent Director or a Director retiring as per the sub -section (6) of section 
152 of the Companies Act, 2 013, if the approval of the shareholders for the 
                                                           
578 ibid 
579 ibid 
580 ibid 
581 ibid

[Page 116]
116 
 
reappointment or continuation of the aforesaid directors or Manager otherwise 
provided for by the provisions of these regulations or the Companies Act, 2013 
has been complied with:  
Provided further that the  requirement specified in this regulation shall not be 
applicable to the director appointed pursuant to the order of a Court or a Tribunal 
or a resolution plan approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code or to a 
nominee director of the Government on t he board of a listed entity, other than a 
public sector company, or to a nominee director of a financial sector regulator on 
the board of a listed entity or to a director appointed under the public private 
partnership model/structure:  
Provided further tha t the requirement specified in this regulation shall not be 
applicable to a director nominated by a financial institution registered with or 
regulated by the Reserve Bank of India under a lending arrangement in its normal 
course of business or nominated by a debenture trustee registered with the Board 
under a subscription agreement for the debentures issued by the HVDLE.  
(5) Any vacancy in the office of a director shall be filled by the 582[HVDLE]at the 
earliest and in any case not later than three months from the date of such vacancy:  
583[Provided that if the vacancy in the office of a director results in non -
compliance with the provisions of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 62F, sub -
regulation (1) or (2) of regulation 62G, sub-regulation (2) or (3) of regulation 62H 
or sub-regulation (2) or (3) of regulation 62I, the HVDLE shall ensure compliance 
at the earliest and in any case not later than three months from the date of such 
vacancy:] 
Provided 584[further] that if the HVDLE  becomes non -compliant with the 
requirement under sub-regulation (1) of this regulation,  585[sub-regulation (1) of 
regulation 62F, sub-regulation (1) or (2) of regulation 62G, sub -regulation (2) or 
(3) of regulation 62H or sub -regulation (2) or (3) of regulation 62I, ] due to 
expiration of the term of office of any director, the resulting vacancy shall be filled 
by the listed entity not later than the date of such office is vacated:  
Provided further that this sub-regulation shall not apply if the HVDLE fulfils the 
requirement under sub-regulation (1) of this regulation 586[, sub-regulation (1) of 
regulation 62F, sub regulation (1) or (2) of regulation 62G, sub -regulation (2) or 
(3) of regulation 62H or sub-regulation (2) or (3) of regulation 62I,] without filling 
the vacancy.  
(6) The board of directors shall meet at least four times a 587[financial] year, with a 
maximum time gap of one hundred and twenty days between any two 
588[consecutive] meetings.  
                                                           
582 Substituted for the words “listed entity” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
583 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
584 ibid 
585 ibid 
586 ibid 
587 ibid 
588 ibid

[Page 117]
117 
 
(7) The quorum for every meeting of the board of directors shall be one -third of its 
total strength or three di rectors, whichever is higher, including at least one 
independent director.  
Explanation:– For removal of doubts, it is clarified that the participation of the 
directors by video conferencing or by other audio -visual means shall also be 
considered for the purposes of such quorum. 
(8) The board of directors shall periodically review compliance reports pertaining to 
all laws applicable to the HVDLE, prepared by the HVDLE as well as steps taken 
by the HVDLE to rectify instances of non-compliances.  
(9) The board of directors of the HVDLE  shall satisfy itself that plans are in place 
for orderly succession by appointment to the board of directors and senior 
management.  
(10) The board of directors shall lay down a code of conduct suitably incorporating 
the duties of independent directors as laid down in the Companies Act, 2013 for 
all members of board of directors and senior management of the HVDLE.  
(11)  (a) The board of directors shall recommend all fees or compensation, if any, 
paid to non-executive directors, including independent directors and shall require 
approval of shareholders in general meeting.  
(b) The requirement of obtaining approval of shareholders in general meeting shall 
not apply to payment of sitting fees to non-executive directors, if made as per the 
Companies Act, 2013 for payment of sitting fees without approval of the Central 
Government.  
(c) The approval of shareholders mentioned in clause (a) of this sub -regulation, 
shall specify the limits for the maximum number of stock options that may be 
granted to non-executive directors, in any financial year and in aggregate.  
(d) The approval of shareholders by special resolution shall be obtained every 
589[financial] year, in which the annual remuneration payable to a single non -
executive director exceeds fifty per cent. of the total annual remuneration payable 
to all non-executive directors, giving details of the remuneration thereof. 
(e) Independent directors shall not be entitled to any stock option.  
 
(12) The fees or compensation payable to executive directors who ar e promoters or 
members of the promoter group, shall be subject to the approval of the 
shareholders by special resolution in general meeting, if-  
(i) the annual remuneration payable to such executive director exceeds 
Rupees 5 crore or 2.5 per cent. of the net profits of the listed entity, 
whichever is higher; or  
(ii) where there is more than one such director, the aggregate annual 
remuneration to such directors exceeds 5 per cent. of the net profits of 
the HVDLE:  
Provided that the approval of the shareholders under this provision shall 
be valid only till the expiry of the term of such director. 
                                                           
589 ibid

[Page 118]
118 
 
Explanation: — For the purposes of this clause, net profits shall be calculated as 
per section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013.  
 
(13) The information specified in Part A of Schedule II shall be placed before the 
board of directors.  
 
(14) The chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of the HVDLE shall 
provide the compliance certificate to the board of directors as specified in Part 
B of Schedule II.  
(15) (a) The HVDLE  shall lay down procedures to inform the board of directors 
about risk assessment and minimization procedures.  
 
(b) The board of directors shall be responsible for framing, implementing and 
monitoring the risk management plan for the HVDLE.  
 
(16) The board of directors shall evaluate independent directors on the following 
parameters:  
   (a) performance of the directors; and  
(b) fulfillment of the independence criteria as specified in these 
regulations and their independence from the management:  
Provided that in the above evaluation, the directors who are subject to 
evaluation shall not participate. 
 
(17) The statement to be annexed to the notice as referred to in sub -section (1) of 
section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 for each item of special business to be 
transacted at a general meeting shall also set forth clearly the recommendation 
of the board of directors to the shareholders  590[along with the rationale]  on 
each items. 
 
Maximum number of directorships.  
62E. The directors of HVDLE shall comply with the following conditions with respect 
to the maximum number of directorships, including any alternate directorships held by 
them at any point of time -  
(a) A person may act as a director in not more than seven listed entities:  
Provided that a person may serve as an independent director in not more than seven 
listed entities. 
(b) Notwithstanding the above, any person who is serving as a whole time director/ 
managing director in any listed entity may serve as an independent director in not 
more than three listed entities.  
Explanation (1): — For the purpose of this regulation, the number of listed entities 
on which a person is a director / independent director shall be cumulative of those 
whose equity shares are listed on a stock exchange and “high value debt listed 
entities”.  
 
                                                           
590 ibid

[Page 119]
119 
 
Explanation (2):— For the purpose of this regulation, the directorship(s) held by a 
person on an ex-officio basis due to   statute or applicable contractual framework 
in case of public sector undertakings and entities set up under a public private 
partnership arrangem ent shall not be included in the maximum number of 
directorships” 
 
(c) The provisions of this regulation shall be complied with within six months from 
the date of the publication of Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 in the 
Official Gazette or the date of Annual General Meeting, whichever is later.  
 
Audit Committee. 
62F. (1) Every HVDLE  shall constitute an audit committee subject to the following 
terms of reference: 
(a) The audit committee shall have minimum three directors as members. 
(b) At least two-thirds of the members of audit committee shall be independent 
directors.   
(c) All members of audit committee shall be financially literate and at least one 
member shall have accounting or related financial management expertise. 
Explanation (1): — For the purpose of this regulation, “financially literate” shall 
mean the ability to read and understand basic financial statements i.e., balance 
sheet, profit and loss account, and statement of cash flows. 
Explanation (2) : — For the purpose of this regulation, a member shall be 
considered to have accounting or related financial management expertise if he or 
she possesses experience in finance or accounting, or requisite professional 
certification in  accounting, or any other comparable experience or background 
which results in the individual’s financial literacy, including being or having been 
a chief executive officer, chief financial officer or other senior officer with 
financial oversight responsibilities. 
 
(d) The chairperson of the audit committee shall be an independent director 
and he/she shall be present at Annual general meeting to answer queries of 
the shareholders. 
(e) The company secretary shall act as the secretary to the audit committee. 
(f) The audit committee, at its discretion, shall invite the director or head of 
the finance function, head of internal audit and a representative of the 
statutory auditor and any other such executives to be present at the meetings 
of the committee: 
Provided that occasionally, the audit committee may meet without the presence 
of any executives of the HVDLE. 
 
(2) The HVDLE shall ensure that the meetings of the audit committee are conducted 
in the following manner:  
(a) The audit committee shall meet at least four times in a 591[financial] year and 
not more than one hundred and twenty days shall elapse between two 
consecutive meetings. 
                                                           
591 ibid

[Page 120]
120 
 
(b) The quorum for audit committee meeting shall either be two members or one 
third of the members of the audit committee, whichever is greater, with at least 
two independent directors. 
(c) The audit committee shall have powers to investigate any activity within its 
terms of reference, seek information from any employee, obtain outside legal 
or other professional advice and secure attendance of outsiders with relevant 
expertise, if it considers necessary. 
 
(3) The role of the audit committee and the information to be reviewed by the audit 
committee shall be as specified in Part C of Schedule II. 
 
Nomination and remuneration committee.  
 62G. (1) The board of directors shall ensure that the functions of the nomination and 
remuneration committee as specified in Part D of the Schedule II are either discharged 
by the board of directors or, a nomination and remuneration committee is constituted 
as follows:  
(a) the committee shall comprise of at least three directors;  
(b) all directors of the committee shall be non-executive directors; and  
(c) at least two-thirds of the directors shall be independent directors.  
 
(2)  The chairperson of nomination and remuneration committee  shall be an 
independent director:  
Provided that the chairperson of the HVDLE, whether executive or non-executive, 
may be appointed as a member of the nomination and remuneration committee and 
shall not chair such committee.  
(3) The quorum for a meeting of the nomination and remuneration committee shall be 
either two members or one third of the members of the committee, whichever is 
greater, including at least one independent director. 
(4) The chairperson of the nomination and remuneration committee may be present at 
the annual general meeting, to answer the shareholders' queries.  
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (4), it shall be the discretion 
of the chairperson to decide as to who may answer the queries.  
(6) The nomination and remuneration committee shall meet at least once in a 
592[financial] year.  
(7) In case of entities that are not companies or body corporates incorporated under 
the Companies Act, 2013 or set up under the public private par tnership model/ 
structure, function of the nomination and remuneration committee as specified 
under Part D of Schedule II may be ensured as per the provisions of their respective 
statutes or in terms of the public private partnership model/ structure. 
 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee.  
62H. (1) The board of directors shall ensure that the functions of the stakeholders 
relationship committee as specified in Part D of the Schedule II are discharged by the 
board of directors or a Stakeholders Relationship Committee is constituted to 
discharge such functions.    
                                                           
592 ibid

[Page 121]
121 
 
(2)  The chairperson of stakeholders relationship committee shall be a non -executive 
director.  
(3) At least three directors, with at least one being an independent director, shall be 
members of the stakeholders relationship committee.  
(4) The chairperson of stakeholders relationship committee shall be present at the 
annual general meetings to answer queries of the debenture holders. 
(5) The stakeholders relationship committee shall meet at least once in a 593[financial] 
year. 
 
Risk Management Committee.  
62I. (1) The board of directors shall ensure that the functions of the Risk Management 
Committee as specified in Part D of the Schedule II are discharged by audit committee 
or by the board of directors or a risk management committee constituted by the board 
of directors as per this regulation. 
 
(2) The risk management committee shall have minimum three members with majority 
of them being members of the board of directors, including at least one independent 
director.  
 
(3) The chairperson of the risk management committee shall be a member of the board 
of directors and senior executives of the HVDLE may be members of the 
committee.  
 
(4) The risk management committee shall meet at least twice in a 594[financial] year 
and not more than two hundred and ten days shall elapse between any two 
consecutive meetings. 
 
(5) The quorum for a meeting of the risk management committee shall be either two 
members or one third of the members of the committee, whichever is higher, 
including at least one member of the board of directors in attendance. 
 
(6) The board of directors shall define the role and responsibility of the risk 
management committee and may delegate monitoring and reviewing of the risk 
management plan to the committee and such other functi ons as it may deem fit 
including cyber security: 
Provided that the role and responsibilities of the risk management committee shall 
mandatorily include the performance of functions specified in Part D of Schedule 
II. 
 
(7) The risk management committee shall ha ve powers to seek information from any 
employee, obtain outside legal or other professional advice and secure attendance 
of outsiders with relevant expertise, if it considers necessary. 
 
Vigil mechanism.  
62J. (1) The HVDLE shall formulate a vigil mechanism/ whistle blower policy for 
directors and employees to report genuine concerns.  
                                                           
593 ibid 
594 ibid

[Page 122]
122 
 
 
(2)  The vigil mechanism shall provide for adequate safeguards against victimization 
of director(s) or employee(s) or any other per son who avail the mechanism and also 
provide for direct access to the chairperson of the audit committee in appropriate or 
exceptional cases.  
 
Related party transactions. 
62K. 595[(1) HVDLE shall comply with the provisions of regulation 23 above except 
regulation 23(8) and regulation 23(9) in respect of related party transactions. For the 
purpose of this regulation word “listed entity’ mentioned in regulation 23 shall be read 
as “HVDLE”.] 
 
(2) 596[***] 
(3) 597[***] 
(4) 598[***] 
(5) All material related party transactions and subsequent material modifications as 
defined by the audit committee under sub -regulation (3) shall require prior No -
Objection Certificate  from the Debenture Trustee and the Debenture Trustee shall 
in turn obtain No -Objection from the debenture holders who  are not related with 
the Issuer and hold atleast more than fifty per cent. of the debentures in value, on 
the basis of voting including e-voting599[, in the manner specified by the Board].  
(6) After obtaining approval of the debenture holders, approval of the shareholders 
through resolution shall be obtained. 
Explanation (1): —  If the No-Objection Certificate has been withheld, the matter 
shall not be taken forward for shareholders’ consideration.  
Explanation (2): —  This No-Objection Certificate from Debenture Trustee and 
debenture holders shall be obtained in respect of listed debt securities issued on or 
after April 01, 2025: 
Provided that in case of outstanding listed debt securities as on March 31, 2025, 
No-Objection Certificate from Debenture Trustee and debenture holders shall not 
be required for existing or prospective material related party transactions:   
                                                           
595 Substituted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read 
as under: 
“(1) The  HVDLE  shall  formulate  a  policy  on  materiality  of  related  party transactions  and  on  dealing  
with  related  party  transactions  including  clear  threshold limits duly approved by  the board of directors 
and such policy shall be  reviewed by the board of directors at least once every three years and updated 
accordingly: 
 
Provided  that  a  transaction  with  a  related  party  shall  be  considered  material,  if  the transaction(s)   
to   be   entered   into   individually   or   taken together   with   previous transactions during a financial year, 
exceeds Rupees one thousand crore or ten per cent. of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity 
as per the last audited financial statements of the listed entity, whichever is lower.” 
596 Omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
597 ibid 
598 ibid 
599 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.

[Page 123]
123 
 
Provided further that prior approval of the shareholders and No -objection 
Certificate by Debenture Trustee of a HVDLE, in the manner as speci fied in sub-
regulation (5) of regulation 62K of these regulations shall not be required for a 
related party transaction to which the listed subsidiary is a party but the listed entity 
is not a party, if regulation 62K of these regulations is applicable to such listed 
subsidiary.  
 
Explanation (3): — For related party transactions of unlisted subsidiaries of a listed 
subsidiary as referred above, the prior approval of the shareholders and No -
objection Letter from Debenture Trustee of the listed subsidiary, in the manner as 
specified in sub -regulation (5) of regulation 62K of these regulations, shall be 
obtained:  
 
Provided that the requirements specified under this sub -regulation shall not apply 
in respect of a resolution plan approved under section 31 of the  Insolvency Code, 
subject to the event being disclosed to the recognized stock exchanges within one 
day of the resolution plan being approved. 
 
(7) The provisions of 600[sub-regulation (5)]shall not be applicable in the following 
cases:  
(a) transactions entered into between two 601[public sector]companies;  
(b) transactions entered into between a holding company and its wholly owned 
subsidiary whose accounts are consolidated with such holding company and 
placed before the shareholders at the general meeting for approval; 602[***] 
(c) transactions entered into b etween two wholly -owned subsidiaries of the 
listed holding company, whose accounts are consolidated with such holding 
company and placed before the shareholders at the general meeting for 
approval603[;]  
604[(d) transactions which are in the nature of payment of statutory dues, 
statutory fees or statutory charges entered into between an entity on one hand 
and the Central Government or any State Government or any combination 
thereof, on the other hand; and  
(e) transactions entered into between a public sector company on the one hand 
and the Central Government or any State Government or any combination 
thereof, on the other hand.] 
 
                                                           
600 Substituted for the words, symbols and numbers “sub-regulations (3), (4) and (5)”  vide the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requi rements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 
w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
601 Substituted for the word “government” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.  
602 The word “and” omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
603 Substituted for the symbol “.” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligati ons and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.  
604 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.

[Page 124]
124 
 
605[Explanation: For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that the term ‘holding 
company’ used in clause (b) of this sub-regulation refers to and shall be deemed to 
have always referred to a listed holding company.] 
 
 
(8) The provisions of this regulation shall be applicable to all transactions entered into 
on or after April 01, 2025.  
(9) The HVDLE shall submit to the stock exchanges disclosures of related party 
transactions in the format as specified by the Board from time to time, and publish 
the same on its website: 
Provided that a HVDLE shall submit such disclosures along with its standalone 
financial results for the half year.  
 
Corporate governance requirements with respect to unlisted material subsidiary 
of HVDLE 
62L. (1) At least one independent director, on the board of directors of the HVDLE, 
shall be a director on the board of directors of an unlisted material subsidiary, whether 
incorporated in India or not.  
Explanation: — For the purposes of this regulation, the term “material subsidiary” 
shall mean a subsidiary, whose 606[turnover]or net worth exceeds twenty per cent. 
of the consolidated 607[turnover]or net worth respectively, of the listed entity and 
its subsidiaries in the immediately preceding accounting year. 
 
(2) The audit committee of the HVDLE shall also review the financial statements and 
in particular, the investments made by the unlisted material subsidiary.  
 
(3) The minutes of the meetings of the board of directors of the unlisted material 
subsidiary shall be placed at the meeting of the board of directors of the HVDLE.  
 
(4) The management of the unlisted material subsidiary shall periodically bring to the 
notice of the board of directors of the HVDLE, a statement of all significant 
transactions and arrangements entered into by the unlisted material subsidiary.  
 
Explanation: — For the purpose of this regulation, the term “significant transaction 
or arrangement” shall mean any individual transaction or arrangement that exceeds 
or is likely to exceed ten per cent. of th e total revenues or total expenses or total 
assets or total liabilities, as the case may be, of the unlisted material subsidiary for 
the immediately preceding financial year.  
 
(5) A HVDLE shall not dispose of shares in its unlisted material subsidiary resulting 
in reduction of its shareholding (either on its own or together with other 
                                                           
605 Substituted vide  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. Prior to its substitution, the explanation read 
as under: 
“Explanation: — For the purpose of clause (a) of this su b-regulation, "government company" means 
Government company as defined in sub-section (45) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013.” 
  
606 Substituted for the word “income” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.  
607 ibid

[Page 125]
125 
 
subsidiaries) to less than or equal to fifty per cent. or relinquish the control over the 
subsidiary without passing a special resolution in its General Meeting except in 
cases where such divestment is made under a scheme of arrangement duly approved 
by a Court/Tribunal, or under a resolution plan duly approved under section 31 of 
the Insolvency Code an d such an event is disclosed to the recognized stock 
exchanges within one day of the resolution plan being approved.  
 
(6) Selling, disposing and leasing of assets amounting to more than twenty per cent. of 
the assets of the unlisted material subsidiary on an aggregate basis during a financial 
year shall require prior approval of shareholders by way of special resolution, unless 
the sale/disposal/lease is made under a scheme of arrangement duly approved by a 
Court/Tribunal, or under a resolution plan duly appro ved under section 31 of the 
Insolvency Code and such an event is disclosed to the recognized stock exchanges 
within one day of the resolution plan being approved. 
 
608[Nothing contained in this sub-regulation shall be applicable if such sale, disposal 
or lease of assets is between two wholly-owned subsidiaries of the HVDLE.] 
 
(7) Where a HVDLE has a listed subsidiary, which is itself a holding company, the 
provisions of this regulation shall apply to the listed subsidiary in so far as its 
subsidiaries are concerned.  
 
Secretarial Audit and Secretarial Compliance Report. 
62M. (1) Every HVDLE and its material unlisted subsidiaries incorporated in India 
shall undertake secretarial audit 609[as per regulation 24A].  
 
(2) 610[***] 
 
Obligations with respect to independent directors.  
62N. (1) No person shall be appointed as an alternate director for an independent 
director of a HVDLE.  
 
(2) The maximum tenure of independent directors shall be in accordance with the 
Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder.  
  
(3)    The appointment, re -appointment or removal of an independent director of a 
HVDLE, shall be subject to the approval of sharehold ers by way of a special 
resolution: 
 
                                                           
608 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
609 Substituted for the words and symbols “and shall annex a secretarial audit report given by a company secretary 
in practice, in such form as specified by the Board, with the annual report of the listed entity” vide the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
610 Omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (2) read as under: 
“(2) “Every HVDLE shall submit a secretarial compliance report in such form as specified by the Board, to 
stock exchanges, within sixty days from end of each financial year.”

[Page 126]
126 
 
Provided that where a special resolution for the appointment of an independent director 
fails to get the requisite majority of votes but the votes cast in favour of the resolution 
exceed the votes cast against the resol ution and the votes cast by the public 
shareholders in favour of the resolution exceed the votes cast against the resolution, 
then the appointment of such an independent director shall be deemed to have been 
made under sub-regulation (3): 
Provided further that an independent director appointed under the first proviso shall be 
removed only if the votes cast in favour of the resolution proposing the removal exceed 
the votes cast against the resolution and the votes cast by the public shareholders in 
favour of the resolution exceed the votes cast against the resolution. 
 
(4) The independent directors of the HVDLE shall hold at least one meeting in a 
financial year, without the presence of non-independent directors and members of the 
management and all the independe nt directors shall strive to be present at such 
meeting.  
 
(5) The independent directors in the meeting referred in sub-regulation (4) shall, inter 
alia-  
a) review the performance of non-independent directors and the board of directors 
as a whole;  
b) review the performance of the chairperson of the HVDLE, taking into account 
the views of executive directors and non-executive directors;  
c) assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the 
management of the HVDLE and the board of directors that is necessary for the 
board of directors to effectively and reasonably perform their duties.  
 
(6) An independent director shall be held liable, only in respect of such acts of 
omission or commission by the HVDLE which had occurred with his/her knowledge, 
attributable through processes of board of directors, and with his/ her consent or 
connivance or wh ere he/ she had not acted diligently with respect to the provisions 
contained in these regulations.  
 
(7) 611[***] 
 
(8) The HVDLE shall familiarise the independent directors through various 
programmes about the HVDLE, including the following:  
a) nature of the industry in which the HVDLE operates;  
b) business model of the HVDLE;  
c) roles, rights, responsibilities of independent directors; and  
d) any other relevant information.  
 
                                                           
611 Omitted vide vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. Prior to its omission, sub -regulation (7) read 
as under: 
“(2) “An independent director who resigns or is removed from the board of directors of the HVDLE shall be 
replaced by a new independent director by the HVDLE not later than three months from the date of such 
vacancy: 
Provided that where the HVDLE fulfils the requirement of independent directors in its board of directors 
without filling the vacancy created by such resignation or removal, the requirement of replacement by a new 
independent director shall not apply.”

[Page 127]
127 
 
(9) Every independent director shall, at the first meeting of the board in which  he 
participates as a director and thereafter at the first meeting of the board in every 
financial year or whenever there is any change in the circumstances which may affect 
his status as an independent director, submit a declaration that he meets the criteria of 
independence as provided in clause (b) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 62D and 
that he is not aware of any circumstance or situation, which exist or may be reasonably 
anticipated, that could impair or impact his ability to discharge his duties with an 
objective independent judgment and without any external influence.  
  
(10) The board of directors of the HVDLE shall take on record the declaration and 
confirmation submitted by the independent director under sub -regulation (9) after 
undertaking due assessment of the veracity of the same.  
 
(11) The HVDLE shall undertake Directors and Officers insurance (“D and O 
insurance”) for all its independent directors for such sum assured and for such risks as 
may be determined by its board of directors 
 
(12) No independent director, who resigns from a HVDLE, shall be appointed as an 
executive / whole time director on the board of the HVDLE, its holding, subsidiary or 
associate company or on the board of a company belonging to its promoter group, 
unless a period of one year has elapsed from the date of resignation as an independent 
director. 
Obligations with respect to employees including senior management, key 
managerial personnel, directors and promoters.  
62O. (1) A director shall not be a member in more than ten committee s or act as 
chairperson of more than five committees across all listed entities in which he/she is a 
director which shall be determined as follows:  
a) for calculating the limit of the committees on which a director may serve, all 
public limited companies, wh ether listed or not, and HVDLEs, shall be 
included and all other companies including private limited companies, foreign 
companies and companies under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 shall 
be excluded;  
 
b) for the purpose of determination of limit, chair personship and membership of 
the audit committee and the stakeholders' relationship committee alone shall 
be considered.  
 
(2) Every director shall inform the HVDLE about the positions he or she occupies in 
committees of other listed entities/HVDLEs and notify changes as and when they take 
place.  
 
(3) All members of the board of directors and senior management personnel shall 
affirm compliance with the code of conduct of board of directors and senior 
management on an annual basis.   
 
(4) Senior management shall make disclosures to the board of directors relating to all 
material, financial and commercial transactions, where they have personal interest that 
may have a potential conflict with the interest of the HVDLE at large.

[Page 128]
128 
 
Explanation: — For the purpose of this sub -regulation, conflict of interest relates to 
dealing in the shares of listed entity or commercial dealings with bodies, which have 
shareholding of management and their relatives etc. 
 
(5) No employee including key managerial personn el or director or promoter of a 
HVDLE shall enter into any agreement for himself/herself or on behalf of any other 
person, with any shareholder or any other third party with regard to compensation or 
profit sharing in connection with dealings in the securi ties of such HVDLE, unless 
prior approval for the same has been obtained from the board of directors as well as 
public shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution:  
 
Provided that such agreement, if any, whether subsisting or expired, entered during the 
preceding three years from the date of coming into force of this sub -regulation, shall 
be disclosed to the stock exchanges for public dissemination:  
 
Provided further that subsisting agreement, if any, as on the date of coming into force 
of this sub-regulation shall be placed for approval before the board of directors in the 
forthcoming Board meeting:  
 
Provided further that if the board of directors approve such agreement, the same shall 
be placed before the public shareholders for approval by way of an ordinary resolution 
in the forthcoming general meeting:  
 
Provided further that all interested persons involved in the transaction covered under 
the agreement shall abstain from voting in the general meeting.  
 
Explanation: — For the purposes of this sub-regulation, “interested person” shall mean 
any person holding voting rights in the HVDLE and who is in any manner, whether 
directly or indirectly, interested in an agreement or proposed agreement, entered into 
or to be entered into by such a person or by any employee or key managerial personnel 
or director or promoter of such listed entity with any shareholder or any other third 
party with respect to compensation or profit sharing in connection with the securities 
of such listed entity. 
 
Vacancies in respect of certain Key Managerial Personnel 
62P. (1) Any vacancy in the office of Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director, 
Whole Time Director or Manager shall be filled by the HVDLE at the earliest and in 
any case not later than three months from the date of such vacancy: 
 
Provided that where the HVDLE is required to obtain approval of regulatory, 
government or statutory authorities to fill up such vacancies, then the vacancies 
shall be filled up by the HVDLE at the earliest and in any case not later than six 
months from the date of vacancy: 
 
Provided further that the HVDLE shall not fill such vacancy by appointing a person 
in interim capacity, unless such appointment is made in accordance with the laws 
applicable in case of a fresh appointment to such office an d the obligations under 
such laws are made applicable to such person.

[Page 129]
129 
 
(2) Any vacancy in the office of the Chief Financial Officer shall be filled by the 
HVDLE at the earliest and in any case not later than three months from the date of 
such vacancy: 
 
Provided that where the HVDLE is required to obtain approval of regulatory, 
government or statutory authorities to fill up such vacancy, then the vacancy shall 
be filled up by the HVDLE at the earliest and in any case not later than six months 
from the date of vacancy: 
 
Provided further that the HVDLE shall not fill such vacancy by appointing a person 
in interim capacity, unless such appointment is made in accordance with the laws 
applicable in case of a new appointment to such office and the obligations under 
such laws are made applicable to such person. 
 
612[(3) Any vacancy in the office of Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director, 
Whole Time Director or Manager or Chief Financial Officer of such HVDLE in 
respect of which a resolution plan under section 31 of the Insolvency Code has been 
approved, shall be filled within a period of three months of such approval:  
 
Provided that, in the interim, such HVDLE shall have not less than one full -time key 
managerial personnel managing its day-to-day affairs.] 
 
Other corporate governance requirements. 
62Q. (1) The HVDLE may, at its discretion, comply with requirements as specified in 
Part E of Schedule II, if applicable. 
 
(2) 613[(a) the HVDLE shall submit, to the recognized stock exchange(s), a periodic 
compliance report on corporate governance in the format and within the timelines, 
as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
(b) 614[***] 
(c) Details of cyber security incident s or breaches or loss of data or documents 
shall be disclosed along with the report mentioned in clause (a) of this sub -
regulation, as may be specified. 
(d) The report mentioned in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2) shall be signed either 
by the compliance officer or the chief executive officer of the HVDLE. 
 
 (3) HVDLEs may provide in the annual report, a Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report on the environmental, social and governance disclosures as 
                                                           
612 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. 
613 Substituted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026.  Prior to its substitution, clause (a) read as 
under: 
“(a) The HVDLE shall submit a periodic compliance report on corporate governance in the format as 
specified by the Board from time to time to the recognized stock exchange(s) within twenty one days from the 
end of the period.” 
614 Omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 22.1.2026. Prior to its omission, clause (b) read as under: 
“(b) Details of all material transactions with related parties shall be disclosed along with the report 
mentioned in clause (a) of this sub-regulation.”

[Page 130]
130 
 
specified in clause (f) of the sub -regulation (2) of the regulation 34, in the format 
as may be specified by the Board from time to time.]

[Page 131]
131 
 
CHAPTER VI 
OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS SPECIFIED 
SECURITIES AND EITHER NON-CONVERTIBLE DEBT SECURITIES OR NON-
CONVERTBLE REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES OR BOTH  
 
Applicability of Chapters IV and V.  
63.  (1) 615[An e ntity] which has listed its ‘specified securities’ and ‘non-convertible 
616[***] securities’ 617[***] on any recognised stock exchange, shall be bound by the 
provisions in Chapter IV of these regulations.  
 
(2) The listed entity described in sub -regulation (1) shall additionally comply with the 
following regulations in Chapter V: 
(a) regulation 50 618[***]; 
(b) regulation 51; 
(c) regulation 52(3), (4), 619[(6) and (7)]; 
(d) 620[regulations 53 to 62] 
(e) 621[***] 
(f) 622[***] 
(g) 623[***] 
(h) 624[***] 
(i) 625[***] 
(j) 626[***] 
(k) 627[***] 
(l) 628[***]: 
 
                                                           
615 Substituted for “Entity” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
616 The word “debt” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
617 The words and symbols “or, ‘ non-convertible redeemable preference shares’  or both” omitted by the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021.  
618 The symbols and numbers “(2),(3)” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
619 Substituted for “ (5) and (6)” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
620 Substituted for “ regulation 53” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
621 The word and number “ regulation 54” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
622 The word and number “ regulation 5 5” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
623 The word and number “ regulation 5 6” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
624 The word and number “ regulation 5 7” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
625 The word and number “ regulation 5 8” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
626 The word and number “ regulation 5 9” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
627 The word and number “ regulation 60” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
628 The word and number “ regulation 61” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021.

[Page 132]
132 
 
Provided that the listed entity which has submitted any information to the stock exchange in 
compliance with the disclosure requirements under Chapter IV of these regulations, need not 
re-submit any such information under the provisions of this regulations without prejudice to 
any power conferred on the Board or the stock exchange or any other authority under any law 
to seek any such information from the listed entity: 
Provided further that the listed entity, which has satisfied certain obligations in compliance 
with other chapters, shall not separately satisfy the same conditions under this chapter.  
 
Delisting. 
64.  (1) In the ev ent specified securities of the listed entity are delisted from the stock 
exchange, the listed entity shall comply with all the provisions in Chapter V of these 
regulations.  
 
(2) In the event that non-convertible debt securities and non -convertible redeem able 
preference shares’ of the listed entity do not remain listed on the stock exchange, the listed 
entity shall comply with all the provisions in Chapter IV of these regulations.

[Page 133]
133 
 
629[CHAPTER VIA 
FRAMEWORK FOR VOLUNTARY DELISTING OF NON-CONVERTIBLE 
DEBT SECURITIES OR NON-CONVERTBLE REDEEMABLE 
PREFERENCE SHARES AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE LISTED ENTITY 
ON SUCH DELISTING  
 
64A. Applicability 
(1) The provisions of this Chapter shall be applicable to voluntary delisting of all 
listed non-convertible debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference 
shares from all or any of the stock exchanges where such non -convertible debt 
securities or non -convertible redeemable preference shares are listed except 
where:  
(a) a listed entity that has outstanding listed non-convertible debt securities or 
non-convertible redeemable preference shares issued by way of a public 
issue; or  
(b) a listed entity has more than two -hundred securities holders excluding 
qualified institutional buyers in any International Securities 
Identification Number relating to listed non-convertible debt securities or 
non-convertible redeemable preference shares;  
(c) non-convertible debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference 
shares have been delisted by the stock exchanges as a consequence of 
any penalty or action initiated against the listed entity or on any grounds 
as specified under rule 21 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 
1957;  
(d) non-convertible debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference 
shares have been delisted by the stock exchanges pursuant to redemption 
of such securities or shares;  
(e) non-convertible debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference 
shares have been delisted pursuant to a resolution plan as per Section 31 
of the Insolvency Code. 
  
(2) In case of delisting pursuant to a resolution plan as per the provisions of the 
Insolvency Code, the details of delisting of non -convertible debt securities or 
non-convertible redeemable preference share s shall be disclosed to the stock 
exchanges where such securities or shares are listed within one working day of 
the approval of the resolution plan under the Insolvency Code.  
 
(3) The provisions of regulation 59 of these regulations shall not be applicable to the 
voluntary delisting of non -convertible debt securities or non -convertible 
redeemable preference shares under this Chapter. 
64B. In-principle approval of the stock exchanges 
(1) The listed entity shall make an application to the relevant stock exchange(s) for 
seeking in-principle approval for the proposed delisting of non -convertible debt 
securities or non -convertible redeemable preference shares in the form specified 
by such stoc k exchange, not later than fifteen working days from the date of 
passing of the board resolution to that effect or of receipt of any other statutory or 
regulatory approval, whichever is later.  
                                                           
629 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.08.2023.

[Page 134]
134 
 
  
(2) The application seeking in -principle approval for the delisting of the non -
convertible debt securities or non -convertible redeemable preference shares shall 
be disposed of by the relevant stock exchange(s) within a period not exceeding 
fifteen working days from the date of receipt of such application that is complete 
in all respects.  
  
(3) The stock exchange shall  take into account all relevant matters including the 
following while granting the in-principle approval:  
(a) necessary approvals of the board of direct ors in respect of the delisting 
proposal;  
(b) due resolution of all investor grievances by the listed entity;  
(c) due payment of all listing fees or fines or penalties to the stock exchange;  
(d) compliance with all provisions of these regulations;  
(e) pendency of any litigation or action against the listed entity pertaining to 
its activities in the securities market; 
(f) non-payment of any penalty imposed by the Board or the existence of any 
restrictions or limitations imposed by the Board upon the listed entity. 
 
64C. Obligations of the listed entity 
(1) The listed entity shall ensure that the process of obtaining necessary approval from 
all holders of non -convertible debt securities or non -convertible redeemable 
preference shares commences within three working days of the gra nt of in -
principle approval by the stock exchange(s). 
 
(2) All the events in respect of the proposal of delisting for non -convertible debt 
securities or non -convertible redeemable preference shares beginning with the 
placing of the agenda for delisting before the board of directors till the delisting is 
completed, shall be disclosed as material information to the stock exchanges as per 
regulation 51 of these regulations. 
 
(3) In addition to the information disclosed to the stock exchanges as per regulation 
51 of these regulations, the following information shall be disclosed by the listed 
entity on its website as well as to the stock exchanges, within two working days 
from the date of receipt of in -principle approval from the stock exchanges for 
delisting of non -convertible debt securities or non -convertible redeemable 
preference shares:  
(a)  the name(s) of the stock exchange(s) from which the non -convertible debt 
securities or non-convertible redeemable preference shares are sought to be 
delisted together with the details of all such securities or shares that are sought 
to be delisted;  
(b)  the cut -off date specified for determining the list of holders of non -
convertible debt securities or non -convertible redeemable preference shares 
to whom notice for approving the delisting proposal is mandated to be sent;  
(c)  the objects and  reasons for delisting of non -convertible debt securities or 
non-convertible redeemable preference shares;  
(d)  the proposed time table from the cut-off date as specified in clause (b) till the 
date of making final application to the stock exchanges for delisting of non -
convertible debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference shares;  
(e) a disclaimer specifying the following:

[Page 135]
135 
 
“Once the said securities are delisted:  
(i) the delisted non -convertible debt securities/ non -convertible redeemable 
preference shares shall cease to be under the purview of the Act and the 
rules and regulations prescribed thereunder; and 
(ii) the holders of such non -convertible debt securities/ non -convertible 
redeemable preference shares shall not have any recourse to the investor 
grievance mechanism for any reason including change/ removal of the 
debenture trustee or in case of default, suc h as dispute resolution 
mechanism, grievance redress mechanism (SCORES), etc. under the Act 
and the rules and regulations made thereunder.”;  
(f) a statement by the board of directors of the listed entity confirming that all 
material information which is requi red to be disclosed under the provisions 
of these regulations has been disclosed to the stock exchange;  
(g)  a statement from the debenture trustee on the adequacy of security cover in 
case of secured non-convertible debt securities; 
(h)  an undertaking that the issuer has not paid or shall not pay any incentive to 
any investor, directly or indirectly, in connection with delisting under this 
Chapter; 
(i) disclosure of non -convertible debt securities or non -convertible redeemable 
preference shares held by the related parties or by any person on behalf of the 
issuer or its related parties and an undertaking that such persons shall not vote 
on the proposal; 
(j) an undertaking that the issuer has not entered or shall not enter into any 
arrangement with any investor or with persons referred to in clause (i) above, 
by way of side letters or otherwise which leads to the discrimination amongst 
the investors;  
(k)  a statement by the board of directors of the listed entity certifying that: - 
(i) the entity is in com pliance with the applicable provisions of securities 
laws; and  
(ii) the delisting, in their opinion (with detailed explanation), is in the interest 
of the holders of the non -convertible debt securities or non -convertible 
redeemable preference shares;  
(l)  name and contact details of the compliance officer of the listed entity.  
 
64D. Notice of delisting  
(1)The listed entity shall send the notice of delisting to the holders of non-convertible 
debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference shares , not later than 
three working days from the date of receipt of in-principle approval from the stock 
exchanges.  
 
(2) A copy of the notice referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall also be made available 
on the website of the listed entity.  
 
(3) The notice of delis ting shall contain all the disclosures specified in regulation 
64C of these regulations along with the in -principle approval received from the 
stock exchange(s) and such other disclosures as may be necessary for the holders 
of non -convertible debt securiti es or non -convertible redeemable preference 
shares to take an informed decision.

[Page 136]
136 
 
(4) The notice of delisting shall also contain the provision of e-voting for the holders 
of the non-convertible debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference 
shares. 
 
64E. Approval from the holders and No -Objection Letter from the Debenture 
Trustee. 
(1) The listed entity shall obtain approval from all the holders of non -convertible 
debt securities or non -convertible redeemable preference shares within fifteen 
working days from the date of the notice of delisting. 
 
(2) The listed entity shall also obtain the No -Objection Letter from the debenture 
trustee in case of delisting of non-convertible debt securities.  
 
64F. Failure of delisting proposal. 
(1) The delisting proposal shall be  deemed to have failed under any of the following 
circumstances:  
(a) non-receipt of in-principle approval from any of the stock exchanges; or  
(b) non-receipt of requisite approval from the holders of non -convertible debt 
securities or non-convertible redeemable preference shares; or 
(c) non-receipt of No -Objection Letter from the debenture trustee in case of 
proposal for delisting of non-convertible debt securities.  
 
(2) In case of failure of the delisting proposal, the listed entity shall intimate the same 
to the stock exchanges within one working day from the date of event of failure as 
specified in sub-regulation (1).  
  
64G. Final application to the stock exchange 
(1) Within five working days from the date of obtaining the requisite approval from 
the holders of non -convertible debt securities or non -convertible redeemable 
preference shares in terms of regulation 64E of these regulations, the listed entity 
shall make the  final application for delisting to the stock exchange in the form 
specified by such stock exchange.  
 
(2) The final application for delisting shall be disposed of by the stock exchange within 
fifteen working days from the date of receipt of such application t hat is complete 
in all respects.  
 
(3) Upon disposal of the final application for delisting by the stock exchange, the non-
convertible debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference shares of the 
listed entity, as the case may be, shall be delisted from the stock exchange. 
 
64H. Delisting from some of the stock exchanges. 
(1) Where the non -convertible debt securities or non -convertible redeemable 
preference shares are listed on more than one stock exchanges, the listed entity 
may choose to delist such securities or shares from all stock exchanges except one 
such stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals.

[Page 137]
137 
 
(2)  If the listed entity proposes to delist its non -convertible debt securities or non -
convertible redeemable preference shares as per sub-regulation (1), the provisions 
of regulations 64B to 64G of these regulations shall not be applicable and the listed 
entity shall:  
(a) obtain the prior approval of its board of directors for such delisting;  
(b) make an application to the stock exchange for delisting its non -convertible 
debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference shares;  
(c) disclose the fact of delisting from the stock exchanges on its website;  
(d) obtain No-Objection Letter from the Debenture Trustee in case of proposed 
delisting of non-convertible debt securities;  
(e) disclose the fact of delisting, the reasons for such delisting and the fact of 
continuation of listing of non-convertible debt securities or non-convertible 
redeemable preference shares, as the case may be, on the stock exchange 
having nationwide trading terminals, on its website.  
 
(3) The application for delisting filed as per sub-regulation (1) shall be disposed of by 
the stock exchange within a period not exceeding thirty workin g days from the 
date of receipt of such application that is complete in all respects. 
 
64I. Monitoring of compliance by the stock exchanges 
The relevant stock exchanges shall monitor compliance by the listed entity with 
the provisions of this Chapter and shall report to the Board all instances of non -
compliance as soon as reasonably possible.]

[Page 138]
138 
 
CHAPTER VII 
OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS INDIAN 
DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS 
 
 
Applicability. 
65. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to listed enti ty whose securities market 
regulators are signatories to the Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding of 
International Organization of Securities Commission issuing ‘Indian Depository 
Receipts’ as defined under Rule 13 of the Companies (Registration of For eign 
Companies) Rules, 2014.  
 
Definitions.  
66. For the purpose of this chapter , unless the context otherwise requires -  
(a) “IDR Holder(s)” shall mean holder(s) of Indian Depository Receipts. 
(b) “Depository Agreement” shall mean an agreement between the listed entity and the 
domestic depository 
(c) “Home Country” or “country of origin” shall mean the country or parent country 
where the listed entity is incorporated and listed.  
(d) “Security holder” shall mean holder of the security or equity shares of the listed 
entity in the home country. 
 
General Obligations of listed entity. 
67. (1) All correspondences filed with the stock exchange(s) and those sent to the IDR 
Holders shall be in English.  
 
(2)  The listed entity shall comply, at all times, with the rules/regulations/laws of the country 
of origin. 
 
(3)  The listed entity shall undertake that the competent Courts, Tribunals and regulatory 
authorities in India shall have jurisdiction in the event of any dispute, either with the stock 
exchange or any investor, concerning the India Depository Receipts offered or subscribed 
or bought in India. 
 
(4)  The listed entity shall forward, on a continuous basis, any information requested by the 
stock exchange, in the interest of investors from time to time. 
 
(5) 630[All claims, differences or disputes between the listed entity and its investor arising out 
of or in relation to the activities of the listed entity in the securities market shall be 
submitted to a dispute resolut ion mechanism that includes mediation and/or conciliation 
and/or arbitration, in accordance with the procedure specified by the Board.] 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
630 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 04-07-2023. Before the substitution, sub-regulation (5) read as follows: 
(5) In case of any claim, difference or dispute under the provisions of this chapter and other provisions 
of these regulations applicable to the listed entity, the same shall be referred to and decided by arbitration 
as provided in the bye-laws and regulations of the stock exchange(s).

[Page 139]
139 
 
Disclosure of material events or information.  
68. (1) The listed entity shall promptly inform to the stock exchange(s) of all events which 
are material, all information which is price sensitive and/or have bearing on 
performance/operation of the listed entity. 
 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub -regulation (1), the listed entity shall make the 
disclosures as specified in Part C of Schedule III. 
 
Indian Depository Receipt holding pattern & Shareholding details. 
69. (1) The listed entity shall file with the stock exchange the Indian Depository Receipt 
holding pattern on a quarterly basis within fifteen days of end of the quarter in the 
format specified by the Board. 
 
(2) The listed entity shall file the following d etails with the stock exchange as is required to 
be filed in compliance with the disclosure requirements of the listing authority or stock 
exchange in its  home country or any other jurisdiction where the securities of the listed 
entity are listed: 
(a) Shareholding Pattern;  
(b) Pre and post arrangement share holding pattern and Capital Structure in case of any 
corporate restructuring like mergers / amalgamations  
 
Periodical Financial Results.  
70. (1) The listed entity shall file periodical financial results with the stock exchange in 
such manner and within such time and to the extent that it is required to file as per the 
listing requirements of the home country. 
 
(2) The listed entity shall comply with the requirements with respect to preparation and 
disclosures in financial results as specified in Part B of Schedule IV.  
  
Annual Report. 
71. (1) The listed entity shall submit to stock exchange an annual report at the same time 
as it is disclosed to the security holder in its home country or in other jurisdictions 
where such securities are listed.  
 
(2) The annual report shall contain the following:  
(a) Report of board of directors; 
(b) Balance Sheet; 
(c) Profit and Loss Account; 
(d) Auditors Report; 
(e) All periodical and special reports( if applicable); 
(f) Any such other report which is required to be sent to security holders annually. 
  
(3) The listed entity shall comply with the requirements with respect to preparation and 
disclosures in financial results in annual report as specified in Part B of Schedule IV. 
 
Corporate Governance.  
72. (1) The listed entity shall comply with the corporate governance provisions as 
applicable in its home country and other jurisdictions  in which its equity shares are 
listed.

[Page 140]
140 
 
(2) The listed entity shall submit to stock exchange a comparative analysis of the corporate 
governance provisions that are applicable in its home country and in the other jurisdictions 
in which its equity shares are l isted along with the compliance of the same vis -à-vis the 
corporate governance requirements applicable under regulation 17 to regulation 27, to other 
listed entities.  
 
Documents and Information to IDR Holder. 
73. The listed entity shall disclose/ send the foll owing documents to IDR Holders,  at the 
same time and to the extent that it discloses to security holders in its home country or 
in other jurisdictions where its securities are listed: 
(a) Soft copies of the annual report to all the IDR holders who have registe red their 
email address(es) for the purpose  
(b) Hard copy of the annual report to those IDR holders who request for the same either 
through domestic depository or Compliance Officer 
(c) the pre and post arrangement capital structure and share holding pattern in c ase of 
any corporate restructuring like mergers / amalgamations and other schemes  
 
Equitable Treatment to IDR Holders. 
74.  (1)If the listed entity's equity shares or other securities representing equity shares are 
also listed on the stock exchange(s) in countries other than its home country, it shall 
ensure that IDR Holders are treated in a manner equitable with security holders in home 
country.  
 
(2) The listed entity shall ensure that for all corporate actions, except those which are not 
permitted by Indian laws, it shall treat IDR holders in a manner equitable with security 
holders in the home country. 
 
(3) In case of take -over or delisting or buy -back of its equity shares, the listed entity shall, 
while following the laws applicable in its home country, give equitable treatment to IDR 
holders vis-à-vis security holder in home country. 
 
(4) The listed entity shall ensure protection of interests of IDR holders particularly with 
respect to all corporate benefits permissible under Indian laws and the laws of its home 
country and shall address all investor grievances adequately. 
 
Advertisements in Newspapers. 
75.  (1)The listed entity shall publish the following information in the newspaper :  
(a) periodical financial results required to be disclosed;  
(b) Notices given to its IDR Holders by advertisement; 
 
(2) The information specified in sub-regulation (1) shall be issued in at one English national 
daily newspaper circulating in the whole or substantially the whole of India and in one 
Hindi national daily newspaper in India.  
 
Terms of Indian Depository Receipts.  
76.  (1) The listed entity shall pay the dividend as per the timeframe applicable in its home 
country or other jurisdictions where its securities are listed, whichever is earlier, so as 
to reach the IDR Holders on or before the date fixed for payment of dividend to holders 
of its equity share or other securities.

[Page 141]
141 
 
 
(2) The listed entity shall not forfeit unclaimed dividends before the claim becomes barred by 
law in the home country of the listed entity, as may be applicable, and that such forfeiture, 
when effected, shall be annulled in appropriate cases.  
 
(3) The Indian Depository Receipts shall have two-way fungibility in the manner specified 
by the Board from time to time.  
 
Structure of Indian Depository Receipts. 
77.  (1) The listed entity shall ensure that the underlying shares of IDRs shall rank pari-
passu with the existing shares of the same class and the fact of having different classes 
of shares based on different criteria, if any, shall be disclosed by the listed entity in the 
annual report. 
 
(2) The listed entity shall not exercise a lien on the fully paid underlying shares, against which 
the IDRs are issued, and that in respect of partly paid underlying shares, against which the 
IDRs are issued and shall also not exercise any lien except in respect of moneys called or 
payable at a fixed time in respect of such underlying shares. 
 
(3) The listed entity, subject to the requirements under the laws and regulations of its home 
country, if any amount be paid up in advance of calls on any underlying shares against 
which the IDRs are issued, shall stipulate that such amount may carry interest but shall not 
in respect thereof confer a right to dividend or to participate in profits. 
 
Record Date.  
78.  (1) The listed entity, where it is required so to do in its home country or other 
jurisdictions where its securities may be listed, shall fix the record date for the purpose 
of payment of dividends or distribution of any other corporate benefits to IDR Holders. 
 
(2) The listed entity shall give notice in advance of at least four working days to the 
recognised stock exchange(s)  of record date specifying the purpose of the record date.  
 
Voting.  
79.  (1) The listed entity shall, either directly or through an agent, send out proxy forms to 
IDR Holders in all cases mentioning that a security holder may vote either for or against 
each resolution. 
 
(2) Voting rights of the IDR Holders shall be exercised in accordance with the depository 
agreement.  
 
Delisting of Indian Depository Receipt. 
80.  (1) The listed entity shall, if it decides to delist Indian Depository Receipts, give fair 
and reasonable treatment to IDR holders.  
 
(2) The listed entity shall comply with such norms and conditions for delisting Indian 
Depository Receipts as specified by the Board or stock exchange in this regard.  
 
(3) The listed entity shall, in case underlying equity shares are delisted, shall delist and 
cancel the Indian Depository Receipts.

[Page 142]
142 
 
CHAPTER VIII 
OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS SECURITISED 
DEBT INSTRUMENTS  
 
Applicability.  
81.  (1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to Special Purpose Distinct Entity issuing 
securitised debt instruments and trustees of Special Purpose Distinct Entity shall ensure 
compliance with each of the provisions of these regulations.  
 
(2) The expressi ons "asset pool", "clean up call option", "credit enhancement", "debt or 
receivables", "investor", "liquidity provider", "obligor", "originator", "regulated activity", 
"scheme", "securitization", "securitized debt instrument", "servicer", "special purpose distinct 
entity", "sponsor" and "trustee" shall have the same meaning as assigned to them under 
[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments 
and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008]631; 
 
Intimation and filings with stock exchange(s). 
82.  (1) The listed entity shall intimate the Stock exchange, of its intention to issue new 
securitized debt instruments either through a public issue or on private placement basis 
(if it proposes to list such privately placed debt securities on the Stock exchange) prior 
to issuing such securities. 
 
(2) The listed entity shall intimate to the stock exchange(s), at least two working days in 
advance, excluding the date of the intimation  and date of the meeting, regarding the 
meeting of its board of trustees, at which the recommendation or declaration of issue of 
securitized debt instruments or any other matter affecting the rights or interests of holders 
of securitized debt instruments is proposed to be considered.  
 
(3) The listed entity shall submit such statements, reports or information including financial 
information pertaining to Schemes to stock exchange  within seven days from the end of 
the month/ actual payment date, either by itself or through the servicer, on a monthly basis 
in the format as specified by the Board from time to time:  
 
Provided that where periodicity of the receivables is not monthly, reporting shall be made 
for the relevant periods. 
 
(4) The listed entity shall provide the stock exchange, either by itself or through the servicer, 
loan level information, without disclosing particulars of individual borrowers, in manner 
specified by stock exchange. 
 
Disclosure of information having bearing on performance/operation of listed entity 
and/or price sensitive information.  
83. (1) The listed entity shall promptly inform the stock exchange(s) of all information 
having bearing on the on performance/operation of the listed entity and price sensitive 
information. 
 
                                                           
631 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 06.09.2018. Prior to this, it read as “ Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Public Offer and 
Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008”.

[Page 143]
143 
 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub -regulation(1), the listed entity shall make the 
disclosures specified in Part D of Schedule III. 
 
Explanation.- The expression ‘promptly inform’, shall imply that the stock exchange must be 
informed must as soon as practically possible and without any delay and that the information 
shall be given first to the stock exchange(s) before providing the same to any third party. 
 
Credit Rating. 
84.  (1) Every rating obtained by the listed entity with respect to securitised debt 
instruments shall be periodically reviewed, prefer ably once a year, by a  credit rating 
agency registered by the Board. 
 
(2) Any revision in rating(s) shall be disseminated by the stock exchange(s). 
 
Information to Investors. 
85. (1) The listed entity shall provide either by itself or through the servicer, loan level 
information without disclosing particulars of individual borrower to its investors. 
 
(2) The listed entity shall provide information regarding revision in rating as a result of credit 
rating done periodically in terms of regulation 84 above to its investors. 
 
(3) The information at sub -regulation (1) and (2) may be sent to investors in electronic 
form/fax if so consented by the investors. 
 
(4) The listed entity shall display the email address of the grievance redressal division and 
other relevant details prominently on its website and in the various materials / pamphlets/ 
advertisement campaigns initiated by it for creating investor awareness.  
 
Terms of Securitized Debt Instruments. 
86. (1) The listed entity shall ensure that no material modification shall be made to the 
structure of the securitized debt instruments in terms of coupon, conversion, 
redemption, or otherwise without prior approval of the recognised stock exchange(s) 
where the securitized debt instruments are listed and the listed entity shall make  an 
application to the recognised stock exchange(s) only after the approval by Trustees. 
 
(2) The listed entity shall ensure timely interest/ redemption payment. 
 
(3) The listed entity shall ensure that where credit enhancement has been provided for, it shall 
make credit enhancement available for listed securitized debt instruments at all times.  
 
(4) The listed entity shall not forfeit unclaimed interest and principal and such unclaimed 
interest and principal shall be, after a period of seven years, transferred to the  Investor 
Protection and Education Fund established under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009. 
 
(5) Unless the terms of issue provide otherwise, the listed entity shall not select any of its listed 
securitized debt instruments for redemption otherwise than on pro rata basis or by lot and 
shall promptly submit to the recognised stock exchange(s) the details thereof.

[Page 144]
144 
 
(6) The listed entity shall remain listed till the maturity or redemption of securit ised debt 
instruments or till the same are delisted as per the procedure laid down by the Board  
 Provided that the provisions of this sub -regulation shall not restrict the right of the 
 recognised stock exchange(s) to delist, suspend or remove the securit ies at any time and 
 for any reason which the recognised stock exchange(s) considers proper in accordance 
 with the applicable legal provisions. 
 
Record Date. 
87. (1) The listed entity shall fix a record date for payment of interest and payment of 
redemption or repayment amount or for such other purposes as specified by the 
recognised stock exchange (s). 
 
(2) The listed entity shall give notice in advance of at least seven working days (excluding 
the date of intimation and the record date)  to the recognised stock exchange (s) of the 
record date or of as many days as the Stock Exchange may agree to or require specifying 
the purpose of the record date.

[Page 145]
145 
 
632[CHAPTER VIII A 
OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS SECURITY 
RECEIPTS 
 
Applicability.  
87A. (1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the issuer of security receipts which has 
listed its security receipts and the issuer and its sponsor shall ensure compliance wi th 
each of the provisions of these Regulations. 
 
(2) The expressions “asset reconstruction company”, "investor", “issue”, “issuer”,  “offer for 
sale”, “private placement offer”, “qualified buyer”, "scheme", “security receipts”, "sponsor", 
and “valuer” shall have the same meaning as assigned to them under Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) 
Regulations, 2008. 
 
 
Intimations and Disclosure of events or information to Stock Exchanges. 
87B. (1) The listed entity shall first disclose to stock exchange(s) of all events or information, 
as specified in Part E of Schedule III, as soon as reasonably possible but not later than 
twenty four hours from occurrence of the event or information: 
 
Provided that in case the disclosure is made after twenty four hours of occurrence of the event 
or information, the listed entity shall, along with such disclosures provide explanation for the 
delay. 
 
(2) The listed entity with respect to disclosures referred to in this regulation, shall provide 
updates related to such disclosures on a regular basis, till such time the event is 
resolved/closed, with relevant explanations. 
 
(3) The listed entity shall provide specific and adequate reply to all queries raised by stock 
exchange(s) with respect to any events or information. 
 
Provided that the stock exchange(s) shall disseminate information and clarification as soon as 
reasonably practicable.  
 
(4) The listed entity, suo moto, may confirm or deny any reported event or information to 
stock exchange(s).  
 
(5) The listed entity shall disclose on its website or on the website of the sponsor all such 
events or information which has been disclosed to s tock exchange(s) under this regulation, 
and such disclosures shall be hosted on the website of the listed entity for a minimum period 
of five years and thereafter as per the archival policy of the listed entity, as disclosed on its 
website. 
 
Valuation, Rating and NAV disclosure.  
87C. (1) An issuer whose security receipts are listed on a stock exchange shall ensure that: 
                                                           
632 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 06.09.2018.

[Page 146]
146 
 
(i) the listed security receipts are valued at the end of each quarter  i.e. as on March 
31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of every year; 
 
(ii) valuation is conducted by an independent valuer; and 
 
(iii) the net asset value is calculated on the basis of such independent valuation and the 
same is declared by the asset reconstruction company within fifteen days of the 
end of the quarter. 
 
(2) The issuer shall also comply with the extant Reserve Bank of India requirement of 
obtaining credit rating of security receipts at half yearly interval and declaration of the net 
asset value thereafter and/or any other requirement as prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India 
from time to time. 
 
Provided that in those two quarters in a year, where both external valuation and credit rating 
are required, issuer shall disclose lower of the two calculated Net Asset Value.  
 
Terms of Security Receipts. 
87D. (1) Any security receipt issued would be transferable only in favour of qualified buyers 
in terms of Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of 
Security Interest Act, 2002. 
 
(2) Unless the terms of issue provide otherwise, the listed enti ty shall not select any of its 
listed security receipts for payments otherwise than on pro rata basis or by lot and shall 
promptly submit to the stock exchange(s) the details thereof.  
 
Record Date. 
87E. (1) The listed entity shall fix a record date for payment to holders of security receipts or 
for such other purposes as specified by the stock exchange(s).  
 
(2) The listed entity shall give notice in advance of at least seven working days (excluding the 
date of intimation and the record date) to the stock exchange(s) of the record date or of as 
many days as the stock exchange may agree to or require specifying the purpose of the record 
date.]

[Page 147]
147 
 
CHAPTER IX 
OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS MUTUAL FUND 
UNITS 
 
Applicability.  
88. (1)The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the asset management company 
managing the mutual fund scheme whose units are listed on the recognised stock 
exchange(s).  
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, the provisions of the Securi ties and 
Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 and directions issued 
thereunder shall apply on the listed entity and to the schemes whose units are listed on the 
recognised stock exchange(s). 
 
Definitions.  
89. The expressions "Asset Management Company", "Net Asset Value", "Scheme" , "Unit" 
and "Unit Holder" shall have the same meaning as assigned to them under Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996; 
 
 
Submission of Documents. 
90.  (1) The listed entity shall intimate to the recognised stock exchange(s) the information 
relating to daily Net Asset Value, monthly portfolio, half yearly portfolio of those 
schemes whose units are listed on the recognised stock exchange(s) in the format as 
specified under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 
1996 and directions issued there under. 
  
(2) The listed entity shall intimate to the recognised stock exchange(s) in the manner 
specified by the recognised stock exchange(s) of: 
(a) movement in unit capital of those schemes whose units are listed on the recognised 
stock exchange(s);  
(b) rating of the scheme whose units are listed on the recognised stock exchange(s) and 
any changes in the rating thereof (wherever applicable); 
(c) imposition of penalties and material litigations against the listed entity and Mutual 
Fund; 
(d) any prohibitory orders restraining the listed entity from transferring units registered 
in the name of the unit holders. 
 
Dissemination on the website of stock exchange(s). 
91.  The listed entity shall submit such information and documents, which are required to 
be disseminated on the listed entity’s website in terms of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 and directions issued there under, to 
the recognised stock exchange for dissemination.

[Page 148]
148 
 
633[CHAPTER IX-A 
OBLIGATIONS OF SOCIAL ENTERPRISES 
 
Applicability 
91A. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to: 
(a) a For Profit Social Enterprise whose designated securities are listed on the 
applicable segment of the Stock Exchange(s); 
(b) a Not for Profit Organization that is registered on the Social Stock Exchange(s); 
 
Disclosures by a For Profit Social Enterprise. 
91B. A For Profit Social Enterprise whose designated securities are listed on the Stock 
Exchange(s) shall comply with the disclosure requirements contained in these 
regulations with respect to issuers whose specified securities are listed on the Main 
Board or the SME Exchange or the Innovators Growth Platform, as the case may be. 
 
Disclosures by a Not for Profit Organization. 
91C. 634[(1) A Not for Profit Organization registered on the Social Stock Exchange(s), 
including a Not for Profit Organization whose designated securities are listed on the 
Social Stock Exchange(s), shall be required to make annual disclosures to the Social 
Stock Exchange(s) on –   
(i) financial aspects, as may be specified by the Board, by October 31st of each year or 
before the due date of filing of income tax return as prescribed under the provisions of 
the Income-tax Act, 1961, whichever is later, or within such  other period as may be 
specified by the Board; and 
(ii) non-financial aspects, as may be specified by the Board, within a period of 60 days 
from the end of the financial year or within such other period as may be specified by the 
Board.]  
(2) In addition to the disclosures referred in sub -regulation (1), the Social Stock 
Exchange(s) may specify matters that shall be disclosed by the Not for Profit 
Organization on an annual basis. 
 
Intimations and disclosures by Social Enterprise of events or information to Social 
Stock Exchange(s) or Stock Exchange(s) 
91D. (1) A Social Enterprise whose designated securities are listed on the Social 
Stock Exchange(s) or the Stock Exchange(s), as the case may be, shall frame a policy 
for determination of materiality, duly approved by its board or management, as the case 
may be, which shall be disclosed on the Social Stock Exchange(s) or the Stock 
Exchange(s). 
 
                                                           
633 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 25.7.2022. 
634 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.09.2025. Prior to the substitution, the sub-regulation (1) read as 
follows- 
“(1) A Not for Profit Organization registered on the Social Stock Exchange(s), including a Not for 
Profit Organization whose designated securi ties are listed on the Social Stock Exchange(s), shall be 
required to make annual disclosures to the Social Stock Exchange(s) on matters specified by the Board, 
within 60 days from the end of the financial year or within such period as may be specified by the Board.”

[Page 149]
149 
 
(2) The board and management of the Social Enterprise shall authorize one or more of 
its Key Managerial Personnel for the purpose of determining materiality of an event or 
information and for the purpose of making disclosures to the Social Stock Exchange(s) 
or the Stock Exchange(s), as the case may be, under this regulation and the contact 
details of such personnel shall also be disclosed to the Social Stock Exchange(s) or the 
Stock Exchange(s). 
 
(3) A Social Enterprise whose designated securities are listed on the Social Stock 
Exchange(s) or the Stock Exchange(s), as the case may be, shall disclose to the Social 
Stock Exc hange(s) or the Stock Exchange(s) where it is registered or has listed its 
specified securities, as the case may be, any event that may have a material impact on 
the planned achievement of outputs or outcomes.  
 
(4) The disclosure referred in sub -regulation (3) shall be made as soon as reasonably 
possible but not later than seven days or within such period as may be specified by the 
Board, from the occurrence of the event and shall comprise details of the event including 
the potential impact of the event an d the steps being taken by the Social Enterprise to 
address the same. 
 
(5) The Social Enterprise shall provide updates on a regular basis along with relevant 
explanations in respect of the disclosures required in sub-regulation (3) till the time the 
concerned event remains material. 
 
(6)The Social Enterprise shall provide specific and adequate reply to all queries raised 
by the Social Stock Exchange(s) or the Stock Exchange(s), as the case may be, with 
respect to any events or information: 
 
Provided that the Social Stock Exchange(s) or the Stock Exchange(s), as the case may 
be, shall disseminate the information and clarification as soon as reasonably practicable. 
 
(7)The Social Enterprise may suo moto  confirm or deny any reported event or 
information to Social Stock Exchange(s) or the Stock Exchange(s), as the case may be. 
 
(8)The Social Enterprise shall disclose on its website all such events or information 
which have been disclosed to the Social Stock Exchange(s) or the Stock Exchange(s), 
as the case may be, under this regulation. 
 
Disclosures by a Social Enterprise in respect of social impact 
91E. (1) A Social Enterprise, which is either registered with or has raised funds through 
a Social Stock Exchange or a Stock Exchange, as the case may be, shall  be required to 
submit an annual impact report to the Social Stock Exchange or the Stock Exchange in 
the format specified by the Board from time to time.

[Page 150]
150 
 
(2) The annual impact report shall be 635[assessed by a Social Impact Assessment 
636[Organization]  employing Social Impact Assessor(s) ] 637[for listed project(s) and 
shall be self-certified for non-listed project(s): 
Provided that the annual impact report shall cover atleast 67% of the program 
expenditure in the previous financial year]. 
 
638[(2A) A Social Enterprise which is only registered on a Social Stock Exchange without 
raising funds shall submit a self-certified annual impact report: 
Provided that a Not for Profit Organization that is registered on a Social Stock Exchange 
shall be permitted not to raise funds through it for a maximum period of two years from 
the date of registration or such duration as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided further that upon expiry of the period of two years from the date of registration, 
the Not for Profit Organization shall have at least one listed project failing which it shall 
cease to be registered.] 
 
(3) The Social Stock Exchange(s) may specify parameters, in addition to those specified 
by the Board, which shall be required to be disclosed by a Social Enterprise on an annual 
basis. 
 
Statement of utilisation of funds 
91F. (1) A listed Not for Profit Organization shall submit to the Social Stock 
Exchange(s) the following statement in respect of utilisation of the funds raised, on a 
quarterly basis:- 
(a) category-wise amount of monies raised; 
(b) category-wise amount of monies utilised; 
(c) balance amount remaining unutilised. 
 
(2) The unutilised amount shall be kept in a separate bank account and shall not be co -
mingled with other funds. 
 
(3) The statement required under sub-regulation (1) shall be given till the time the issue 
proceeds have been fully utilised or the purpose for which they were raised, has been 
achieved.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
635 Substituted for the words “ audited by a Social Audit Firm employing Social Auditor ” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 
2023 w.e.f. 21.12.2023. 
636 Substituted for the word “Firm” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.09.2025. 
637 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.09.2025. 
638 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.09.2025.

[Page 151]
151 
 
CHAPTER X 
DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE(S) 
 
Dissemination.  
92. (1) Upon receipt of relevant intimations, information, filings, reports, statements, 
documents or any other submissions in terms of these regulations, from the listed entity 
the recognised stock exchange(s) shall immediately disseminate the  same on its 
website.  
 
(2) The disseminations by the recognised stock exchange(s) as mentioned in sub-regulation (1) 
shall be made in organised, user friendly and easily referable manner including by 
providing hyperlinks for easy accessibility.  
 
Transferability.  
93.  The recognised stock exchange(s) shall coordinate with Depositories to ensure 
compliance with the applicable laws or directions of the Board or any competent court 
with regard to freezing / unfreezing, lock-in/ release of lock-in with respect to securities 
issued or managed by the listed entity.  
 
Draft Scheme of Arrangement & Scheme of Arrangement 639[in case of entities that have 
listed their specified securities]. 
94.  (1) The designated stock exchange, upon receipt of draft schemes of arrangement and 
the documents prescribed by the Board, as per sub -regulation (1) of regulation 37, 
shall forward the same to the Board, in the manner prescribed by the Board.  
 
(2) The stock exchange(s) shall submit to the Board its 640[***] No-Objection Letter 
on the draft scheme of arrangement after inter -alia ascertaining whether the draft 
scheme of arrangement is in compliance with securities laws within  thirty days of 
receipt of draft scheme of arrangement or within seven days of date of receipt of 
satisfactory reply on clarifications from the listed entity and/or opinion from 
independent chartered accountant, if any, sought by stock exchange(s), as 
applicable.  
 
(3) The stock exchange(s), shall issue 641[***] No-objection letter to the listed entity 
within seven days of receip t of comments from the Board, after suitably 
incorporating such comments in the 642[***] No-objection letter: 
Provided that the validity of the 643[***] No-objection letter of stock exchanges 
shall be six months from the date of issuance.  
 
                                                           
639 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board o f India (Listing Obligations a nd Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022. 
640 The words “Objection Letter or” o mitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requi rements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.  
641 The words “Observation Letter or” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.  
642 The words “Observation Letter or” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.  
643 The words “’Objection Letter’ or” o mitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.

[Page 152]
152 
 
(4) The stock exchange(s) shall bring the  644[***] objections 645[***] to the notice of 
Court or Tribunal at the time of approval of the scheme of arrangement.  
 
(5) Upon sanction of the Scheme by the Court or Tribunal, the designated stock 
exchange shall forward its reco mmendations to the Board on the documents 
submitted by the listed entity in terms of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 37.  
646[Draft Scheme of Arrangement & Scheme of Arrangement in case of entities that have 
listed their non -convertible debt securities or non-convertible redeemable preference 
shares. 
94A. (1) Upon receipt of the draft schemes of arrangement and the documents under sub -
regulation (1) of regulation 59A, the designated stock exchange shall forward the 
same to the Board, in such manner as may be specified by the Board. 
 
(2)  The stock exchange(s) shall submit to the Board its No-Objection Letter on the draft 
scheme of arrangement, after ascertaining whether the draft scheme of arrangement 
is in compliance with securities laws, within the timelin es as may be specified by 
the Board from time to time. 
 
(3)  The stock exchange(s), shall issue No -objection letter to the listed entity in the 
manner and within the timelines, as may be specified by the Board from time to 
time: 
 
 Provided that the validity of the No-objection letter of stock exchanges shall be six 
months from the date of issuance. 
 
(4)  The stock exchange(s) shall bring the objections to the notice of National Company 
Law Tribunal at the time of approval of the scheme of arrangement by the National 
Company Law Tribunal. 
(5)  Upon sanction of the Scheme by the National Company Law Tribunal, the stock 
exchange shall forward its recommendations to the Board on the documents 
submitted by the listed entity in terms of sub-regulation (4) of regulation 59A.] 
[Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications accompanying Annual Audit Report. 
95. The recognised stock exchange(s) shall review the Statement on Impact of Audit 
Qualifications and the accompanying annual audit report submitted in terms of clause 
(d) of sub -regulation (3) of regulation 33 and clause (a) of sub -regulation (3) of 
regulation 52.]647 
 
                                                           
644 The words “observations or” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.  
645 The words “as the case may be” o mitted by the SEBI (Listing Obli gations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.  
646 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board o f India (Listing Obligations a nd Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022. 
647 Substituted for ‘Form B accompanying Annual Audit Report.  
95. The recognised stock exchange(s) shall review the Form B and the accompanying annual audit report, 
submitted in terms of clause (d) of sub -regulation (3) of regulation 33 and clause (a) of sub -regulation (3) of 
regulation 52, in the manner specified in Schedule VIII.’ by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 01-04-2016

[Page 153]
153 
 
Grievance Redressal.  
96.  The recognised stock exchange(s) shall redress/facilitate redressal of complaints of 
holders of listed securities from time to time.  
 
Monitoring of Compliance/Non Compliance & Adequacy/ Accuracy of the disclosures  
97.  (1) The recognised stock exchange(s) shall monitor compliance by the listed entity 
with provisions of these regulations. 
 
(2) The recognised stock exchange(s) shall also monitor adequacy/ accuracy of the disclosures 
made by listed entity with respect to provisions of these regulations.  
 
(3) The recognised stock exchange(s) shall submit a report to the Board, with respect to the 
obligations specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2), in the manner specified by the Board.  
 
(4) The recognised stock exchange(s) shall put in place appropriate framework  including 
adequate manpower and such infrastructure as may be required to comply with the 
provisions of this regulation.

[Page 154]
154 
 
CHAPTER XI 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 
 
Liability for contravention of the Act, rules or the regulations. 
98.  (1) The listed entity or any other person thereof who contravenes any of the provisions 
of these regulations,  shall, in addition to liability for action in terms of the securities 
laws, be liable for the following actions by the respective stock exchange(s), i n the 
manner specified in circulars or guidelines issued by the Board:  
(a) imposition of fines; 
(b) suspension of trading; 
(c) freezing of promoter/promoter group holding of designated securities, as may be 
applicable, in coordination with depositories.  
(d) any other action as may be specified by the Board from time to time 
(2)The manner of revocation of actions specified in clauses (b) and (c) of sub -regulation (1), 
shall be as specified in circulars or guidelines issued by the Board.  
 
Failure to pay fine.  
99.  If listed entity fails to pay any fine imposed on it within such period as specified from 
time to time, by the recognised stock exchange(s), after a notice in writing has been 
served on it, the stock exchange may initiate action.

[Page 155]
155 
 
648[CHAPTER XI-A 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
99A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or 
any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding 
twelve months, for furthering innovation 649[***] relating to testing new products, processes, 
services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities 
markets. 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub -regulation (1) shall be subject to the 
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to 
be complied with on a continuous basis. 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live 
testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. m ay be 
deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering 
innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the 
Board.]  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
648 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulation, w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 
649 The words “in technological aspects” omitted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 3.8.2021.

[Page 156]
156 
 
CHAPTER XII 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
 
Amendments to other regulations. 
100.  The regulations specified in the Schedule IX to these regulations shall be amended in 
the manner and to the extent stated therein. 
 
Power to remove difficulties. 
101.  (1) In order to remove any difficulties in the application  or interpretation of these 
regulations, the Board may issue clarifications through guidance notes or circulars after 
recording reasons in writing.  
 
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such guidance 
notes or circulars may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: 
(a) procedural aspects including intimation to be given, documents to be submitted; 
(b) disclosure requirements; 
(c) listing conditions. 
 
Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations. 
102. [(1)]650 The Board may in the interest of investors and securities market and for the 
development of the securities market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of 
these regulations, if the Board is satisfied that:  
(a) any provision of Act(s), Rule(s), reg ulation(s) under which the listed entity is 
established or is governed by, is required to be given precedence to; or  
(b) the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or 
(c) the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry or class of listed 
entities; or 
(d) the requirement is technical in nature; or 
(e) the non-compliance is caused due to factors affecting a class of entities but being 
beyond the control of the entities. 
 
651[(1A) The Board may after due consideration of the interest of the investors and the 
securities market and for the development of the securities market, relax the strict 
enforcement of any of the requirements of these regulations, if an application is made 
by the Central Government in relation to its strategic disinvestment in a listed entity.] 
 
652[(2) For seeking relaxation under sub-regulation (1), an application, giving details and 
the grounds on which such relaxation has been sought, shall be filed with the Board. 
 
653[(3)The application referred to under sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable fee of rupees one lakh payable by way of direct credit into the bank account 
                                                           
650 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 16.11.2018 
651 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) ( Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 5.12.2022 
652 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 16.11.2018 
653 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 01.04.2023. Prior to its substitution, sub -regulation (3) read as follows:

[Page 157]
157 
 
through NEFT/ RTGS/ IMPS or online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any 
other mode as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
 
Repeal and Savings 
103.  (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, all circulars stipulating or 
modifying the provisions of the listing agreements including those specified in 
Schedule X, shall stand rescinded.  
 
(2) Notwithstanding such rescission, anything done or any action taken or purported to have 
been done or taken including any enquiry or investigation commenced or show cause notice 
issued in respect of the circulars specified in sub-regulation (1) or the Listing Agreements, 
entered into between stock exchange(s) and listed entity, in force prior to the 
commencement of these regulations, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the 
corresponding provisions of these regulations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
*[(3) The application referred to under sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee of rupees 
one lakh payable by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/ RTGS/ IMPS or any other mode 
allowed by Reserve Bank of India or by way of a demand draft in favour of the  Board payable in Mumbai.] 
*[ Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 16.11.2018]

[Page 158]
158 
 
SCHEDULE I – TERMS OF SECURITIES 
[See Regulation 12] 
 
The listed entity shall use the  facility of electronic clearing services or real time gross 
settlement or national electronic funds transfer as follows:- 
 
(1) the listed entity either directly 654[or through the depositories] or through their 655[Registrar 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent] , shall use electronic clearing services (local, 
regional or national), direct credit, real time gross settlement, national electronic funds 
transfer etc for ma king payment of dividend/interest on securities issued/redemption or 
repayment amount.  
 
(2) the listed entity or 656[Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent] shall maintain bank 
details of their investors as follows -  
(a) for investors holding securities in dematerialized mode, by seeking the same from 
the depositories. 
(b) for investors holding securities in physical mode, by updating bank details of the 
investors at their end.  
 
 
(3) 657[***]  
   
                                                           
654 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulat ions, 
2018, w.e.f. 30.5.2018. 
655 Substituted for “Registrar to an Issue and/or Share Transfer Agent ” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 16.12.2025. 
656 Substituted for “Share Transfer Agent” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 16.12.2025. 
657 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.11.2025. Prior to the omission, the clause read as under- 
“(3)In cases where either the bank details such as Magnetic Ink Character Recognition, Indian Financial 
System Code, etc. that are required for making electronic payment are not available or the electronic 
payment instructions have failed or have been rejected by the bank, listed entity or share transfer agent 
shall issue ‘payable-at-par’ warrants/ cheques for making payments:  
Provided that the listed entity shall mandatorily print the bank account details of the investors on such 
payment instruments and in cases where the bank details of investors are not available, the listed entity 
shall mandatorily print the address of the investor on such payment instructions.”

[Page 159]
159 
 
SCHEDULE II: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
 
PART A: MINIMUM INFORMATION TO BE PLACED BEFORE BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS  
 [See Regulation 17(7) 658[and Regulation 62D (13)]] 
 
A. Annual operating plans and budgets and any updates. 
 
B. Capital budgets and any updates. 
 
C. Quarterly results for the listed entity and its operating divisions or business segments. 
 
D. Minutes of meetings of audit committee and other committees of the board of directors. 
 
E. The information on recruitment and remuneration of senior officers just below the level 
of board of directors, including appointment or removal of Chief Fina ncial Officer and 
the Company Secretary. 
 
F. Show cause, demand, prosecution notices and penalty notices, which are materially 
important. 
 
G. Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences, any material effluent or pollution 
problems. 
 
H. Any material default in  financial obligations to and by the listed entity, or substantial 
non-payment for goods sold by the listed entity. 
 
I. Any issue, which involves possible public or product liability claims of substantial 
nature, including any judgement or order which, may ha ve passed strictures on the 
conduct of the listed entity or taken an adverse view regarding another enterprise that 
may have negative implications on the listed entity. 
 
J. Details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement. 
 
K. Transactions that involve substantial payment towards goodwill, brand equity, or 
intellectual property. 
 
L. Significant labour problems and their proposed solutions. Any significant development 
in Human Resources/ Industrial Relations front like signing of wage agreement, 
implementation of Voluntary Retirement Scheme etc. 
 
M. Sale of investments, subsidiaries, assets which are material in nature and not in normal 
course of business. 
 
N. Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by management to 
limit the risks of adverse exchange rate movement, if material. 
 
                                                           
658 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Req uirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.

[Page 160]
160 
 
O. Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory or listing requirements and shareholders 
service such as non-payment of dividend, delay in share transfer etc. 
 
PART B: COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE  
 [See Regulation 17(8) 659[and Regulation 62D(14)]] 
 
The following compliance certificate shall be furnished by chief executive officer and chief 
financial officer: 
 
A. They have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year 
and that to the best of their knowledge and belief: 
(1) these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any 
material fact or contain statements that might be misleading; 
 
(2) these statements together present a true and fair view of the listed entity’s affairs 
and are i n compliance with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and 
regulations.  
 
B. There are, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by 
the listed entity during the year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the listed 
entity’s code of conduct. 
 
C. They accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for 
financial reporting and that they have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control 
systems of the listed entity pertaining to financial reporting and they have disclosed 
to the auditors and the audit committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of 
such internal controls, if any, of which they are aware and the steps they have taken 
or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies. 
 
D. They have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee  
(1) significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year; 
(2) significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have 
been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements; and  
(3) instances of significant fraud of which they have become aware and the 
involvement therein, if any, of the manag ement or an employee having a 
significant role in the listed entity’s internal control system over financial 
reporting. 
 
PART C: ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE AND REVIEW OF 
INFORMATION BY AUDIT COMMITTEE 
 [See Regulation 18(3) 660[and Regulation 62F]] 
 
A. The role of the audit committee shall include the following: 
(1) oversight of the listed entity’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of 
its financial information to ensure that the financial statement is correct, 
sufficient and credible; 
(2) recommendation for appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of 
                                                           
659 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025. 
660 Inserted, ibid.

[Page 161]
161 
 
auditors of the listed entity; 
(3) approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other services rendered by the 
statutory auditors; 
(4) reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements a nd auditor's 
report thereon before submission to the board for approval, with particular 
reference to:  
(a) matters required to be included in the director’s responsibility statement to 
be included in the board’s report in terms of clause (c) of sub -section (3) of 
Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013;  
(b) changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the 
same; 
(c) major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of 
judgment by management;  
(d) significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit 
findings;  
(e) compliance with listing and other legal requiremen ts relating to financial 
statements;  
(f) disclosure of any related party transactions;  
(g) modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report; 
 
(5) reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial statements before 
submission to the board for approval; 
(6) reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses / application of funds raised 
through an issue (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the statement of 
funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer document / prospectus 
/ noti ce and the report submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the 
utilisation of proceeds of a  661[public issue or rights issue or preferential issue or 
qualified institutions placement], and making appropriate recommendations to the 
board to take up steps in this matter; 
(7) reviewing and monitoring the auditor’s independence and performance, and 
effectiveness of audit process; 
(8) approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of the listed entity with 
related parties; 
(9) scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments; 
(10) valuation of undertakings or assets of the listed entity, wherever it is necessary; 
(11) evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems; 
(12) reviewing, with the management, performance of statutory and internal auditors, 
adequacy of the internal control systems; 
(13) reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure 
of the internal audit department, staffing and seniority of the official heading the 
department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit; 
(14) discussion with internal auditors of any significant findings and follow up there 
on; 
(15) reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into 
matters where there is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal 
control systems of a material nature and reporting the matter to the board; 
(16) discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature 
                                                           
661 Substituted for the words “public or rights issue” by the S ecurities and Exchange Board of I ndia (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (sixth amendment) regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.11.2022 .

[Page 162]
162 
 
and scope of audit as well as post -audit discussion to ascertain any area of 
concern; 
(17) to look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, 
debenture holders, shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared dividends) 
and creditors;  
(18) to review the functioning of the whistle blower mechanism; 
(19) approval o f appointment of chief financial officer after assessing the 
qualifications, experience and background, etc. of the candidate; 
(20) Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the terms of reference of the 
audit committee. 
662[(21) reviewing the utilizatio n of loans and/ or advances from/investment by the 
holding company in the subsidiary exceeding rupees 100 crore or 10% of the asset 
size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower including existing loans / advances / 
investments existing as on the date of coming into force of this provision.] 
663[(22) consider and comment on rationale, cost -benefits and impact of schemes 
involving merger, demerger, amalgamation etc., on the listed entity and its 
shareholders.] 
 
B. The audit committee shall mandatorily review the following information:  
(1) management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of 
operations;  
(2) 664[***]  
(3) management letters / letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory 
auditors; 
(4) internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses; and  
(5) the appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor 
shall be subject to review by the audit committee. 
(6) statement of deviations: 
(a) quarterly statement of deviation(s) including report of monitoring agency, if 
applicable, submitted to stock exchange(s) in terms of Regulation 32(1).  
(b) annual statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the 
offer document/prospectus/notice in terms of Regulation 32(7). 
 
 
PART D: ROLE OF COMMITTEES (OTHER THAN AUDIT COMMITTEE)  
665[See Regulation 19(4), 20(4) 666[,] 21(4) 667[,62G, 62H and 
62I]]  
 
                                                           
662 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Discl osure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
663 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
664 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Req uirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 1.4.2022. Prior to the omission, the provision read as under: 
“(2) statement of significant related party transactions (as defined by the audit committee), submitted by 
management;” 
665 Substituted for “ [See Regulation 19(4) and 20(4)]”  by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
666 Substituted for the word “and” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.   
667 Inserted, ibid.

[Page 163]
163 
 
A. ROLE OF NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE :Role of 
committee shall, inter-alia, include the following: 
 
(1) formulation of the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and 
independence of a director and recommend to the board of directors a policy relating 
to, the remuneration of the directors, key managerial personnel and other 
employees; 
668[(1A). For every  appointment of an independent director, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee shall evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board and on the basis of such evaluation, prepare a description 
of the role and capabilities required of an independent director. The person 
recommended to the Board for appointment as an independent director shall have 
the capabilities identified in such description. For the purpose of identifying 
suitable candidates, the Committee may:  
a. use the services of an external agencies, if required;  
b. consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, having due regard to 
diversity; and  
c. consider the time commitments of the candidates.] 
(2) formulation of criteria for evaluation of performa nce of independent directors and 
the board of directors;  
(3) devising a policy on diversity of board of directors;  
(4) identifying persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be 
appointed in senior management in accordance with the criteria laid do wn, and 
recommend to the board of directors their appointment and removal.  
(5) whether to extend or continue the term of appointment of the independent director, 
on the basis of the report of performance evaluation of independent directors.  
669[(6) recommend to the board, all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior 
management.] 
 
B. Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
 
670[The role of the committee shall inter-alia include the following:  
(1) Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the listed entity including 
complaints related to transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-
receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/duplicate certificates, general meetings etc. 
(2) Review of measures taken for effective exercise of votin g rights by 
shareholders.  
(3) Review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the listed entity in 
respect of various services being rendered by the 671[Registrar to an Issue and  Share 
                                                           
668 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
669 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
670 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. Prior to the same, the provision read as follows: 
“The Committee shall consider and resolve the grievances of the security holders of the listed entity including 
complaints related to transfer of shares, non-receipt of annual report and non-receipt of declared dividends.” 
671 Substituted for “Registrar & Share Transfer Agent ” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 16.12.2025.

[Page 164]
164 
 
Transfer Agent].  
(4) Review of the various measures and initiat ives taken by the listed entity for 
reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend 
warrants/annual reports/statutory notices by the shareholders of the company.] 
672[(5) Resolving grievances of debenture holders related to creation of charge, payment 
of interest/principal, maintenance of security cover and any other covenants.] 
 
 
673[C. Risk Management Committee 
 
The role of the committee shall, inter alia, include the following: 
(1) To formulate a detailed risk management policy which shall include: 
(a) A framework for identification of internal and external risks specifically 
faced by the listed entity, in particular including financial, operational, 
sectoral, sustainability (particularly, ESG related risks), information, cyber 
security risks or any other risk as may be determined by the Committee. 
(b) Measures for risk mitigation including systems and processes for internal 
control of identified risks. 
(c) Business continuity plan. 
(2) To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes and systems are in place to 
monitor and evaluate risks associated with the business of the Company;  
(3) To monitor and oversee implementation of the risk management policy, 
including evaluating the adequacy of risk management systems; 
(4) To periodically review the risk management policy, at least once in two years, 
including by considering the changing industry dynamics and evolving 
complexity; 
(5) To keep the board of directors informed about the nature a nd content of its 
discussions, recommendations and actions to be taken; 
(6) The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer 
(if any) shall be subject to review by the Risk Management Committee. 
 
The Risk Management Committee sh all coordinate its activities with other 
committees, in instances where there is any overlap with activities of such 
committees, as per the framework laid down by the board of directors.] 
 
 
PART E: DISCRETIONARY REQUIREMENTS 
 [See Regulation 27(1)] 
A. The Board 
674[(i)] A non-executive chairperson may be entitled to maintain a chairperson's office 
at the listed entity's expense and also allowed reimbursement of expenses incurred in 
                                                           
 
672 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations an d Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 28.03.2025.  
673 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
674 Renumbered as sub-paragraph (i) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 165]
165 
 
performance of his 675[/her] duties.  
676[(ii) The listed entities ranked from 1001 to 2000 as per the list prepared by 
recognized stock  exchanges in terms of sub -regulation (2) of regulation 3 shall 
endeavour to have atleast one woman independent director on its board of directors.] 
 
B. Shareholder Rights 
A half -yearly declaration of f inancial performance including summary of the 
significant events in last six-months, may be sent to each household of shareholders.  
 
C. Modified opinion(s) in audit report 
The listed entity may move towards a regime of financial statements with unmodified 
audit opinion. 
 
677[D. Separate posts of Chairperson and the Managing Director or the Chief 
Executive Officer 
The listed entity may appoint separate persons to the post of the Chairperson and the 
Managing Director or the Chief Executive Officer, such that the Chairperson shall – 
(a) be a non-executive director; and 
(b) not be related to the Managing Director or the Chief Executive Officer as per the 
definition of the term “relative” defined under the Companies Act, 2013.] 
 
 
E. Reporting of internal auditor 
The internal auditor may report directly to the audit committee. 
 
678[F. Independent Directors 
 
The independent directors of top 2000 listed entities as per market capitalization shall 
endeavour to hold at least two meetings in a financial year, without the presence of non-
independent directors  and members of the management and all the independent 
directors shall endeavour to be present at such meetings. 
 
G. Risk Management  
 
Listed entities ranked from 1001 to 2000 in the list prepared by recognized stock 
exchanges in terms of  sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3 may constitute a risk 
management committee with the  composition, roles and responsibilities specified in 
regulation 21.]  
                                                           
675 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
676 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
677 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sec ond Amendment) Regulations, 
2022 w.e.f. 22.3.2022. [Clause D was earlier omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. 1.4.2020. Prior to the omission, clause D read as follows: 
“D. Separate posts of chairperson and chief executive officer  
The listed entity may appoint separate persons to the post of chairperson and managing director or chief 
executive officer.”] 
678 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 166]
166 
 
SCHEDULE III  
 
PART A: DISCLOSURES OF EVENTS OR INFORMATION: SPECIFIED 
SECURITIES 
[See Regulation 30] 
 
The following shall be events/information, upon occurrence of which listed entity shall 
make disclosure to stock exchange(s): 
 
A. Events which shall be disclosed without any application of the guidelines for 
materiality as specified in sub-regulation (4) of regulation (30): 
 
1. 679[Acquisition(s) (including agreement to acquire), Scheme of Arrangement 
(amalgamation, merger, demerger or restructuring), sale or disposal of any unit(s), 
division(s), whole or substantially the whole of the undertaking(s) or subsidiary of 
the listed entity, sale of stake in associate company of the listed entity or any other 
restructuring. 
Explanation (1) - For the purpose of this sub -paragraph, th e word 'acquisition' 
shall mean- 
(i) acquiring control, whether directly or indirectly; or 
(ii) acquiring or agreement to acquire shares or voting rights in a company, 
whether existing or to be incorporated, whether directly or indirectly, 
such that – 
(a) the listed en tity holds shares or voting rights aggregating to 
680[twenty] per cent or more of the shares or voting rights in the said 
company; or 
(b) there has been a change in holding from the last disclosure made under 
sub-clause (a) of clause (ii) of the Explanation to t his sub-paragraph 
and such change exceeds 681[five] per cent of the total shareholding or 
voting rights in the said company; or 
                                                           
679 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15 .7.2023. Prior to the substitution, the sub -paragraph read as 
follows: 
“1. Acquisition(s) (including agreement to acquire), Scheme of Arrangement (amalgamation/ merger/ 
demerger/restructuring), or sale or disposal of any unit(s), division(s) or subsidiary of th e listed entity or 
any other restructuring.  
Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-para, the word 'acquisition' shall mean,-  
(i) acquiring control, whether directly or indirectly; or,  
(ii) acquiring or agreeing to acquire shares or voting rights in, a company , whether directly or 
indirectly, such that -  
(a) the listed entity holds shares or voting rights aggregating to five per cent or more of the shares or 
voting rights in the said company, or;  
(b) there has been a change in holding from the last disclosure made un der sub-clause (a) of clause 
(ii) of the Explanation to this sub -para and such change exceeds two per cent of the total 
shareholding or voting rights in the said company.” 
680 Substituted for the word “five” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Lis ting Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
681 Substituted for the word “two” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 167]
167 
 
(c) the cost of acquisition or the price at which the shares are acquired 
exceeds the threshold specified in sub -clause (c) of clause (i) of sub-
regulation (4) of regulation 30 682[:] 
683[Provided that acquisition of shares or voting rights aggregating to 
five percent or more of the shares or voting rights in an unlisted 
company and any change in holding from the last disclosure made 
under this proviso exceeding two per cent of the total shareholding or 
voting rights in the said unlisted company shall be disclosed on a 
quarterly basis in the format as may be specified.] 
Explanation (2) - For the purpose of this sub -paragraph, “sale or disposa l of 
subsidiary” and “sale of stake in associate company” shall include- 
(i) an agreement to sell or sale of shares or voting rights in a company such 
that the company ceases to be a wholly owned subsidiary, a subsidiary 
or an associate company of the listed entity; or 
(ii) an agreement to sell or sale of shares or voting rights in a subsidiary or 
associate company such that the amount of the sale exceeds the 
threshold specified in sub-clause (c) of clause (i) of sub -regulation (4) 
of regulation 30. 
Explanation (3) - For the purpose of this sub -paragraph, “undertaking” and 
“substantially the whole of the undertaking” shall have the same meaning as given 
under section 180 of the Companies Act, 2013.] 
2. Issuance or forfeiture of securities, split or consolidation of shares, buyback of 
securities, any restriction on transferability of securities  or alteration in terms or 
structure of existing securities including forfeiture,  reissue of forfeited securities, 
alteration of calls, redemption of securities etc.  
3. 684[New Rating(s) or] Revision in Rating(s). 
4. Outcome of Meetings of the board of directors: The listed entity shall disclose to 
the Exchange(s) 685[the outcome of meetings of the board of directors]  held to 
consider the following:  
a) dividends 686[***] recommended or dec lared or the decision to pass any 
dividend and the date on which dividend shall be paid/dispatched;  
b) any cancellation of dividend with reasons thereof; 
c) the decision on buyback of securities; 
d) the decision with respect to fund ra ising proposed to be undertak en 
687[including by way of issue of securities (excluding security receipts, 
securitized debt instruments or money market instruments regulated by the 
Reserve Bank of India), through further public offer, rights issue, American 
Depository Receipts/ Global De pository Receipts/ Foreign Currency 
                                                           
682 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
683 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
684 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
685 Substituted for the words and symbols “ , within 30 minutes of the closure of the meeting ,” by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements ) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
686 The words and symbol “and/or cash bonuses” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2 024. 
687Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 168]
168 
 
Convertible Bonds, qualified institutions placement, debt issue, preferential 
issue or any other method;] 
e) increase in capital by issue of bonus shares through capitalization including the 
date on which such bonus shares shall be credited/dispatched; 
f) reissue of forfeited shares or securities, or the issue of shares or securities held 
in reserve for future issue or the creation in any form or manner of new shares 
or securities or any other rights, privileges or benefits to subscribe to; 
g) short particulars of any other alterations of capital, including calls; 
h) financial results; 
i) decision on voluntary delisting by the listed entity from stock exchange(s): 
688[***] 
5. Agreements (viz. shareholder agreement(s), joint venture agreement( s), family 
settlement agreement(s) (to the extent that it impacts management and control of 
the listed entity), agreement(s)/treaty(ies)/contract(s) with media companies) 
which are binding and not in normal course of business,  revision(s) or 
amendment(s) and termination(s) thereof. 
689[(5A) Agreements entered into by the shareholders, promoters, promoter group entities, 
related parties, directors, key managerial personnel, employees of the listed entity 
or of its holding, subsidiary or associate company, amon g themselves or with the 
listed entity or with a third party, solely or jointly, which, either directly or 
indirectly or potentially or whose purpose and effect is to, impact the management 
or control of the listed entity or impose any restriction or creat e any liability upon 
the listed entity, shall be disclosed to the Stock Exchanges, including disclosure of 
any rescission, amendment or alteration of such agreements thereto, whether or not 
the listed entity is a party to such agreements: 
Provided that such agreements entered into by a listed entity in the normal course 
of business shall not be required to be disclosed unless they, either directly or 
indirectly or potentially or whose purpose and effect is to, impact the management 
or control of the listed entity or they are required to be disclosed in terms of any 
other provisions of these regulations.  
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, the term “directly or indirectly” 
includes agreements creating obligation on the parties to such agreements to ensure 
that listed entity shall or shall not act in a particular manner.]  
6. 690[Fraud or defaults by a listed entity, its promoter, director, key managerial 
personnel, senior management or subsidiary or arrest of key managerial personnel, 
senior management, promoter or director of the listed entity, whether occurred 
within India or abroad: 
For the purpose of this sub-paragraph: 
                                                           
688 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosur e Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as under- 
“Provided that in case of board meetings being held for more than one day, the financial results shall be 
disclosed within thirty minutes of end of the meeting for the day on which it has been considered.”  
689 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023.  
690 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15 .7.2023. Prior to the substitution, the sub -paragraph read as 
follows: 
“6. Fraud/defaults by promoter or key managerial pe rsonnel or by listed entity or arrest of key 
managerial personnel or promoter.”

[Page 169]
169 
 
(i) ‘Fraud’ shall include fraud as defined under Regulation 2(1)(c) of Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. 
(ii) ‘Default’ shall mean non-payment of the interest or principal amount in full 
on the date when the debt has become due and payable. 
Explanation 1- In case of revolving facilities l ike cash credit, an entity would be 
considered to be in ‘default’ if the outstanding balance remains continuously in 
excess of the sanctioned limit or drawing power, whichever is lower, for more 
than thirty days. 
Explanation 2- Default by a promoter, director, key managerial personnel, senior 
management, subsidiary shall mean default which has or may have an impact on 
the listed entity.] 
691[Explanation 3 – Fraud by senior management, other than who is promoter, 
director or key managerial personnel, shall be required to be disclosed only if it is 
in relation to the listed entity.] 
7. Change in directors, key managerial personnel (Managing Director, Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer , Company Secretary etc.),  692[senior 
management,] Auditor and Compliance Officer. 
693[(7A) In case of resignation of the auditor of the listed entity, detailed reasons for 
resignation of auditor, as given by the said auditor, shall be disclosed by the listed 
entities to the stock exchanges as soon as possible but not later than twenty four hours 
of receipt of such reasons from the auditor. 
(7B) Resignation of 694[independent director] including reasons for resignation: In case 
of resignation of an independent director of the listed entity, within seven days from 
the date of resignation, the following disclosures shall be made to the stock exchanges 
by the listed entities: 
i. 695[The letter of resignation along with ] detailed reasons for the resignation 
696[***] as given by the said director 697[***]. 
698[(ia). Names of listed entities in which the resigning director holds directorships, 
indicating the category of directorship and membership of board committees, if any.] 
ii. The independent director shall, along with the detailed reasons, also provide a 
confirmation that there is no other material reasons other than those provided.  
                                                           
691 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
692 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
693 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. 
694 Substituted for “ auditor” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
695 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulati ons, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
696 The words “of independent directors” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
697 The words “ shall be disclosed by the listed entities to the stock exchanges ” omitted by the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021 read with the corrigendum, 
w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
698 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022.

[Page 170]
170 
 
iii. The confirmation as provided by the independent director above shall also be 
disclosed by the listed entities to the stock exchanges along with the 699[disclosures] 
as specified in sub-clause (i) 700[and (ii)] above.]  
701[(7C) In case of resignation of key managerial personnel, senior management, Compliance 
Officer or director other than an independent director; the letter of resignation along 
with detailed reasons for the resignation as given by the key managerial personnel, 
senior management, Compliance Officer or director shall be disclosed to the stock 
exchanges by the listed entities within seven days from the date that such 
resignation comes into effect. 
(7D) In case the Managing Director or Chief Ex ecutive Officer of the listed entity was 
indisposed or unavailable to fulfil the requirements of the role in a regular manner 
for more than forty five days in any rolling period of ninety days, the same along 
with the reasons for such indisposition or unav ailability, shall be disclosed to the 
stock exchange(s).] 
8. Appointment or discontinuation of 702[registrar to an issue and share transfer 
agent]. 
9. 703[Resolution plan/ Restructuring in relation to loans/borrowings from 
banks/financial institutions including the following details: 
(i) Decision to initiate resolution of loans/borrowings; 
(ii) Signing of Inter-Creditors Agreement (ICA) by lenders; 
(iii) Finalization of Resolution Plan; 
(iv) Implementation of Resolution Plan; 
(v) Salient features, not involving commercial secrets, of the resolution/ 
restructuring plan as decided by lenders.].  
10. One time settlement with a bank. 
11. 704[***] winding-up petition filed by any party / creditors.  
12. Issuance of Notices, call letters, resolutions and circulars sent to shareholde rs, 
debenture holders or creditors or any class of them or advertised in the media by 
the listed entity. 
13. Proceedings of Annual and extraordinary general meetings of the listed entity. 
14. Amendments to memorandum and articles of association of listed entity, in brief. 
 
                                                           
699 Substituted for the words “detailed reasons” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
700 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 read with the corrigendum, w.e.f. 1.1.2022. 
701 Inserted by the Securities and Ex change Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
702 Substituted for “share transfer agent” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 16.12.2025. 
703 Substituted for “Corporate debt restructuring” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
704 The words “ reference to BIFR and ” omitted by the Securit ies and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023.

[Page 171]
171 
 
705[15 (a) 706(i) Schedule of analysts or institutional investors meet  707[at least two 
working days in advance (excluding the date of the intimation and the date of the 
meet)] 708[;]  
709[(ii) Presentations prepared by the listed entity for analysts or institutional 
investors meet, post earnings or quarterly calls shall be disclosed to the recognized 
stock exchanges prior to beginning of such events.] 
Explanation 710[I]: For the purpose of this clause ‘meet’ shall mean group 
meetings or group conference calls conducted physically or through digital 
means. 
711[Explanation II: Disclosure of names in the schedule of analysts or institutional 
investors meet shall be optional for the listed entity.] 
712[(b) Audio recordings, video recordings, if any, and transcripts of post earnings 
or quarterly calls, by whatever name called, conducted physically or  through 
digital means, in the following manner: 
(i) The audio recordings shall be promptly made available on the  website and in 
any case, before the next trad ing day or within  twenty-four hours from the 
conclusion of such calls, whichever is earlier; 
(ii) the video recordings, if any, shall be made available on the  website within 
forty-eight hours from the conclusion of such calls; 
(iii) the transcripts of such calls shall be made available on the website along with 
simultaneous submission to recognized stock exchanges within five working days 
of the conclusion of such calls.] 
                                                           
705 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. Prior to the substitution, clause 15 read as follows:  
“Schedule of Analyst or institutional investor meet and presentations on financial results made by the 
listed entity to analysts or institutional investors.” 
706 The provisions renumbered as sub -clause (i) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
707 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
708 Substituted for the words and symbol “and presentations made by the listed entity to analysts or institutional 
investors.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
709 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
710 Renumbered as Explanation I by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
711 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
712 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  Prior to the substitution, the sub -paragraph  read as 
under- 
“(b) Audio or video recordings and transcripts of post earnings/quarterly calls, by w hatever name called , 
conducted physically or through digital means,  simultaneously with submission to the recognized stock 
exchange(s), in the following manner: 
(i) the presentation and the audio/video recordings shall be promptly made available on the 
website and in any case, before the next trading day or within twenty -four hours from the 
conclusion of such calls, whichever is earlier; 
(ii) the transcripts of such calls shall be made available on the website within five working days 
of the conclusion of such calls: 
The requirement for disclosure(s) of audio/video recordings and transcript shall be voluntary with effect from 
April 01, 2021 and mandatory with effect from April 01, 2022;”

[Page 172]
172 
 
713 {16. The following events in relation to the corporate insolvency resolution process  
(CIRP) of a listed corporate debtor under the Insolvency Code: 
a) Filing of application by the corporate applicant for initiation of CIRP, 
also specifying the amount of default; 
b) Filing of application by financial creditors for initiation of CIRP 
against the corporate debtor, also specifying the amount of default; 
c) Admission of application by the Tribunal, along with amount of 
default or rejection or withdrawal, as applicable ; 
d) Public announcement made pursuant to order passed by the Tribunal 
under section 13 of Insolvency Code; 
e) List of creditors as required to be displayed by the corporate debtor 
under regulation 13(2)(c) of the IBBI (Insolvency Resolution Process 
for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016; 
f) Appointment/ Replacement of the Resolution Professional; 
g) Prior or post -facto intimation of the meetings of Committee of 
Creditors; 
h) Brief particulars of invitation of resolution plans under section 
25(2)(h) of Insolvency Code  in the Form specified under regulation 
36A(5) of the IBBI (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate 
Persons) Regulations, 2016; 
i) Number of resolution plans received by Resolution Professional; 
j) Filing of resolution plan with the Tribunal; 
k) Approval of resolution plan by the Tribunal or rejection, if applicable; 
l) 714[Specific features and details of the resolution plan as approved by 
the Adjudicating Authority under the Insolvency Code, not involving 
commercial secrets, including details such as:  
(i) Pre and Post net-worth of the company;  
(ii) Details of assets of the company post CIRP; 
(iii) Details o f securities continuing to be imposed on the 
companies’ assets; 
(iv) Other material liabilities imposed on the company; 
(v) Detailed pre and post shareholding pattern assuming 100% 
conversion of convertible securities; 
(vi) Details of funds infused in the company, creditors paid-off; 
(vii) Additional liability on the incoming investors due to the 
transaction, source of such funding etc.; 
(viii) Impact on the investor – revised P/E, RONW ratios etc.; 
(ix) Names of the new promoters, 715[key managerial 
personnel], if any and their past experience in the business 
or employment. In case where promoter s are companies, 
history of such company and names of natural persons in 
control;  
                                                           
713 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 31.05.2018. 
714 Substituted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021  
w.e.f. 08.01.2021. Prior to the substitution, the sub-clause read as under: - 
 “Salient features, not involving commercial secrets, of the resolution plan approved by the Tribunal, 
in such form as may be specified;” 
715 Substituted for the words “key managerial persons(s)” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 17.1.2023.

[Page 173]
173 
 
(x) Brief description of business strategy.] 
 
m) Any other material information not involving commercial secrets.} 
n) 716[Proposed steps to be taken by the incoming investor/acquirer for 
achieving the MPS; 
o) Quarterly disclosure of the status of achieving the MPS; 
p) The details as to the delisting plans, if any approved in the resolution 
plan.] 
717[17. Initiation of Forensic audit: In case of initiation of forensic audit, (by whatever 
name called), the following disclosures shall be made to the stock exchanges by 
listed entities: 
a) The fact of initiation of forensic audit along -with name of entity 
initiating the audit and reasons for the same, if available; 
b) Final forensic audit report (other than for forensic audit initiated by 
regulatory / enforcement agencies) on receipt by the listed entity along 
with comments of the management, if any.] 
718[Explanation – For the purpose of this sub-paragraph, forensic audit refers to the 
audits, by whatever name called, which are initiated with the objective of detecting 
any mis-statement in financial statements, mis -appropriation, siphoning or 
diversion of funds and does not include audit of m atters such as product quality 
control practices, manufacturing practices, recruitment practices, supply chain 
process including procurement or other similar matters that  would not require any 
revision to the financial statements disclosed by the listed entity.] 
719[18. Announcement or communication through social media intermediaries or 
mainstream media by directors, promoters, key managerial personnel or senior 
management of a listed entity, in relation to any event or information which is 
material for the listed entity in terms of regulation 30 of these regulations and is not 
already made available in the public domain by the listed entity. 
Explanation – “social media intermediaries” shall have the same meaning as 
defined under the Information Technology (I ntermediary Guidelines and Digital 
Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. 
19. Action(s) initiated or orders passed by any regulatory, statutory, enforcement 
authority or judicial body against the listed entity or its directors, key managerial 
personnel, senior ma nagement, promoter or subsidiary, in relation to the listed 
entity, in respect of the following:  
(a) search or seizure; or 
(b) re-opening of accounts under section 130 of the Companies Act, 2013; or 
(c) investigation under the provisions of Chapter XIV of the Companies Act, 2013; 
along with the following details pertaining to the actions(s) initiated, taken or 
orders passed: 
i. name of the authority; 
ii. nature and details of the action(s) taken, initiated or order(s) passed; 
                                                           
716 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 
08.01.2021. 
717 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2020, 
w.e.f. 08.10.2020 
718 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. 
719 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023.

[Page 174]
174 
 
iii. date of receipt of direction or order, including any ad-interim or 
interim orders, or any other communication from the authority; 
iv. details of the violation(s)/contravention(s) committed or alleged to 
be committed; 
v. impact on financial, operation or other activities of the listed entity, 
quantifiable in monetary terms to the extent possible. 
 
20. Action(s) taken or orders passed by any regulatory, statutory, enforcement 
authority or judicial body against the listed entity or its directors, key managerial 
personnel, senior management, promote r or subsidiary, in relation to the listed 
entity, in respect of the following: 
(a) suspension;  
(b) imposition of fine or penalty;  
(c) settlement of proceedings;  
(d) debarment;  
(e) disqualification;  
(f) closure of operations;  
(g) sanctions imposed;  
(h) warning or caution; or  
(i) any other similar action(s) by whatever name called; 
along with the following details pertaining to the actions(s) 720[***] taken or 
orders passed: 
i. name of the authority; 
ii. nature and details of the action(s) taken721[***] or order(s) passed; 
iii. date of receipt of direction or order, including any ad-interim or interim 
orders, or any other communication from the authority; 
iv. details of the violation(s)/contravention(s) committed or alleged to be 
committed; 
v. impact on financial, operation or other activities of the listed entity, 
quantifiable in monetary terms to the extent possible. 
722[Explanation – Imposition of fine or penalty shall be disclosed in the  
following manner along with the details pertaining to the action(s)  taken or 
orders passed as mentioned in the sub-paragraph: 
(i) disclosure of fine or penalty of rupees one lakh or more imposed by 
sectoral regulator or enforcement agency and fine or penalty of rupees 
ten lakhs or more imposed by other authority or judicial body  shall be 
disclosed within twenty four hours. 
(ii) disclosure of fine or penalty imposed which are lower than the  
monetary thresholds specified in the clause (i) above on a quarterly  
basis in the format as may be specified.] 
                                                           
720 The words and symbol “initiated,” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024 . 
721 The words and symbol “, sinitiated” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Li sting 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024 . 
722 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.

[Page 175]
175 
 
 
21. Voluntary revision of financial statements or the report of the board of directors 
of the listed entity under section 131 of the Companies Act, 2013.] 
 
 
B. Events which shall be disclosed upon application of the guidelines for 
materiality referred sub-regulation (4) of regulation (30): 
 
1. Commencement or any postponement in the date of commencement of commercial 
production or commercial operations of any unit/division. 
2. 723[Any of the following events pertaining to the listed entity: 
(a) arrangements for strategic, technical, manufacturing, or marketing tie -
up; or 
(b) adoption of new line(s) of business; or 
(c) closure of operation of any unit, division or subsidiary (in entirety or in 
piecemeal).] 
3. Capacity addition or product launch. 
4. Awarding, bagging/ receiving, amendment or termination of awarded/bagged 
orders/contracts not in the normal course of business.  
5. Agreements (viz. loan agreement(s) 724[***] or any other agreement(s) which are 
binding and not in normal course of business) and revision(s) or amendment(s) or 
termination(s) thereof. 
6. Disruption of operations of any one or more units or division of the listed entity 
due to natural calamity (earthquake, flood, fire etc.), force majeure or events such 
as strikes, lockouts etc. 
7. Effect(s) arising out of change in the regulatory framework applicable to the listed 
entity. 
8. 725[ Pendency of any litigation(s) or dispute(s) or the outcome thereof which may 
have an impact on the listed entity.] 
9. 726[ Frauds or defaults by employees of the listed entity which has or may have an 
impact on the listed entity.] 
10. Options to purchase securities including any ESOP/ESPS Scheme. 
                                                           
723 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15 .7.2023. Prior to the substitution, the sub-paragraph read as 
follows: 
“2. Change in the general character or nature of business brought about by arrangements for strategic, 
technical, manufacturing, or marketing tie -up, adoption of new lines of business  or closure of 
operations of any unit/division (entirety or piecemeal).” 
724 The words and symbols “(as a borrower)” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
725 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15 .7.2023. Prior to the substitution, the sub -paragraph read as 
follows: 
“8. Litigation(s) / dispute(s) /regulatory action(s) with impact.” 
726 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15 .7.2023. Prior to the substitution, the sub -paragraph read as 
follows: 
“9. Fraud/defaults etc. by directors (other than key managerial p ersonnel) or employees of listed 
entity.”

[Page 176]
176 
 
11. Giving of guarantees or indemnity or becoming a surety  727[, by whatever named 
called,] for any third party.  
12. Granting, withdrawal , surrender , cancellation or suspension of key licenses or 
regulatory approvals. 
13. 728[Delay or default in the payment of fines, penalties, dues, etc. to any regulatory, 
statutory, enforcement or judicial authority.] 
 
C. Any other information/event viz. major deve lopment that is likely to affect 
business, e.g. emergence of new technologies, expiry of patents, any change of 
accounting policy that may have a significant impact on the accounts, etc. and brief 
details thereof and any other information which is exclusively known to the listed 
entity which may be necessary to enable the holders of securities of the listed entity 
to appraise its position and to avoid the establishment of a false market in such 
securities.  
 
D. Without prejudice to the generality of para (A), (B) and (C) above, the listed entity 
may make disclosures of event/information as specified by the Board from time to 
time.  
  
 
PART B: DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION HAVING BEARING ON 
PERFORMANCE/OPERATION OF LISTED ENTITY AND/OR PRICE SENSITIVE 
INFORMATION: NON-CONVERTIBLE 729[***] SECURITIES 730[***] 
[See Regulation 51(2)] 
 
A. The listed entity shall promptly inform 731[***] the stock exchang e(s) of all 
information which shall have bearing on performance/operation of the listed entity or 
is price sensitive or shall affect payment of interest or dividend 732[or redemption 
payment] of non-convertible 733[***] securities 734[***] including :  
 
(1) 735[expected default in the timely payment of interest, dividend or redemption 
                                                           
727 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
728 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
729 The word “ DEBT” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
730 The symbol and words “& NON-CONVERTIBLE REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES” omitted 
by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 
7.9.2021. 
731 The word “to” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
732 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
733 The words “ preference shares or redemption of non convertible debt” omitted by the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021.  
734 The words “ or redeemable preference shares” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
735 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, clause (1) read as follows:

[Page 177]
177 
 
payment or both in respect of the non -convertible securities and also default in 
the creation of security for non -convertible debt securities as soon as the same 
becomes apparent;] 
 
(2) any attachment or prohibitory orders restraining the listed entity from transferring 
non-convertible 736[***] securities 737[***] from the account of the registered 
holders along-with the particulars of the numbers of securities so affected , the 
names of the registered holders and their demat account details;  
 
(3) 738[any action which shall result in the redemption, reduction, cancellation, 
retirement in whole or in part of any non-convertible securities;]  
 
(4) any action that shall affect adversely payment of interest on non-convertible debt 
securities or payment of dividend on non -convertible redeemable preference 
shares including default by issuer to pay interest on non -convertible debt 
securities or redemption amount and failure to create a charge on the assets; 
 
(5) any change in the form or nature of any of its non-convertible 739[***] securities 
740[***] that are listed on the stock exchange(s) or in the rights or privileges of 
the holders thereof and make an appli cation for listing of the securities as 
changed, if the stock exchange(s) so require;  
 
(6) any changes in the general character or nature of business / activities, disruption 
of operation due to natural calamity, and commencement of commercial 
production / commercial operations;  
 
(7) any events such as strikes and lock outs. which have a bearing on the interest 
payment/ dividend payment / principal repayment capacity;  
 
(8) details of any letter or comments made by debenture trustees regarding 
payment/non-payment of interest on due dates, payment/non -payment of 
principal on the due dates or any other matter concerning the security, listed entity 
and /or the assets along with its comments thereon, if any;  
 
(9) delay/ default in payment of interest or dividend / principal amount /redemption 
for a period of more than three months from the due date;  
                                                           
“expected default in timely payment of interests/preference dividend or redemption or repayment amount 
or both in respect of the non-convertible debt securities and non-convertible redeemable preference shares 
and also default in creation of security for debentures as soon as the same becomes apparent;” 
736 The word “debt” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
737 The words “or non-convertible redeemable preference shares” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021.  
738 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, clause (3) read as follows:  
“(3) any action which shall result in the redemption, conversion, cancellation, retirement in whole or in 
part of any non-convertible debt securities or reduction, redemption, cancellation, retirement in whole or 
in part of any non-convertible redeemable preference shares;” 
739 The word “debt” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
740 The words “or non-convertible redeemable preference shares” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021.

[Page 178]
178 
 
 
(10) failure to create charge on the assets within the stipulated time period;  
 
(11) any instance(s) of default/delay in timely repayment of interests or principal 
obligations or both in respect of the debt securities including, any proposal for re-
scheduling or postponement of the repayment programmes of the dues/debts of 
the listed entity with any investor(s)/lender(s).  
 
741[***]  
 
(12) any major change in composition of its board of directors, which may amount to 
change in control as defined in Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
 
(13) any revision in the rating; 
 
(14) the following approvals by board of directors in their meeting:- 
 
(a) the decision to pass any interest payment;  
(b) short particulars of any increase of capital whether by issue of bonus 
securities through capitalization, or by way of right securities to be offered 
to the 742[debt security] holders, or in any other way; 
 
(15) all 743[***] information, report, notices, call letters, circulars, proceedings, etc 
concerning non-convertible 744[***] debt securities; 
 
(16) 745[The listed entity shall disclose the outcome of meetings of the board of 
directors to the Exchange(s), within thirty minutes of the closure of the meeting, 
held to consider the following: 
 
(a) the decision with respect to fund raising proposed to be undertaken by way 
of non-convertible securities; 
(b) financial results: 
                                                           
741 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before omission, the Explanation read as follows: 
“Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-para, ‘default’ shall mean Non-payment of interest or principal 
amount in full on the pre-agreed date and shall be recognized at the first instance of delay in servicing of 
any interest or principal on debt.” 
742 Substituted for “debenture” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
743 The word “the” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. 
744 The words “redeemable preference shares or non convertible” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021.  
745 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 7.9.2021. Before substitution, clause (16) read as follows:  
“(16) any other change that shall affect the rights and obligations of the holders of non-convertible debt 
securities / non-convertible redeemable preference shares, any other information not in the public domain 
necessary to enable the holders of the listed securities to clarify its position and to avoid the creation of a 
false market in such listed securities  or any other information having bearing on the 
operation/performance of the listed entity as well as price sensitive information.”

[Page 179]
179 
 
 
Provided that in case of board meetings being held for more than  one day, the 
financial results shall be disclosed within thirty minutes of end of the meeting for 
the day on which it has been considered.] 
 
746[(17) Fraud or defaults, in terms of paragraph 6 of clause A of Part-A of Schedule III, 
by a listed entity, its promoter, director, key managerial personnel, senior management 
or subsidiary or arrest of key managerial personnel, senior manageme nt, promoter or 
director of the listed entity, whether occurred within India or abroad;] 
(18) change in d irectors, key managerial personnel (Managing Director, Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer , Company Secretary etc.), Auditor and 
Compliance Officer;  
(19) in case of resignation of the auditor of the listed entity, detailed reasons for 
resignation of auditor, as given by the said auditor, shall be disclosed by the listed 
entities to the stock exchanges as soon as possible but not later than twenty -four hours 
of receipt of such reasons from the auditor;  
(20) resolution plan/ restructuring in relation to loans/borrowings from banks/financial 
institutions including the following details:  
(i) Decision to initiate resolution of loans/borrowings;  
(ii) Signing of Inter-Creditors Agreement (ICA) by lenders;  
(iii) Finalization of Resolution Plan;  
(iv) Implementation of Resolution Plan;  
(v) Salient features, not involving commercial secrets, of the resolution/  
restructuring plan as decided by lenders.  
(21) One-time settlement with a bank;  
(22) Winding-up petition filed by any party / creditors;  
(23) Proceedings of Annual and extraordinary general meetings of the listed entity;  
(24) the following events in relation to the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process 
(CIRP) of a listed corporate debtor under the Insolvency Code:  
a) Filing of applicati on by the corporate applicant for initiation of CIRP, also 
specifying the amount of default;  
b) Filing of application by the financial creditors for initiation of CIRP  
against the corporate debtor, also specifying the amount of default;  
c) Admission of application by the Tribunal, along with the amount of default or 
rejection or withdrawal, as applicable;  
d) Public announcement made pursuant to the order passed by the Tribunal under 
section 13 of Insolvency Code;  
e) List of creditors as required to be displayed by the corporate debtor under 
regulation 13(2)(c) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency 
Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016;  
f) Appointment/ Replacement of the Resolution Professional;  
g) Prior or post-facto intimation of the meetings of Committee of Creditors;  
h) Brief particulars of invitation of resolution plans under section 25(2)(h) of 
Insolvency Code in the Form specified under regulation 36A (5) of the Insolvency 
and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate 
Persons) Regulations, 2016;  
                                                           
746 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the substitution, the paragraph read as under- 
“(17) fraud/defaults by promoter or key managerial personnel or director or employees of listed entity or by 
listed entity or arrest of key managerial personnel or promoter;”

[Page 180]
180 
 
i) Number of resolution plans received by Resolution Professional;  
j) Filing of resolution plan with the Tribunal;  
k) Approval of resolution plan by the Tribunal or rejection, if applicable;  
l) Specific features and details of the resolution plan as approved by the 
Adjudicating Authority under the Insolvency Code, not involving commercial 
secrets, including details such as:  
(i) Pre and Post net-worth of the company;  
(ii) Details of assets of the company post CIRP;  
(iii) Details of securities continuing to be imposed on the companies’ 
assets;  
(iv) Other material liabilities imposed on the company;  
(v) Detailed pre and post shareholding pattern assuming 100% conversion 
of convertible securities;  
(vi) Details of funds infused in the company, creditors paid-off;  
(vii) Additional liability on the incoming investors due to the transaction, 
source of such funding etc.;  
(viii) Impact on the investor – revised P/E, RONW ratios etc.;  
(ix) Names of the new promoters, key managerial persons(s), if any and 
their past experience in the business or employment. In case where 
promoters are companies, history of such company and names of natural 
persons in control;  
(x) Brief description of business strategy.  
(25) intimation related to any change in terms of issue or redemption or exercising of 
call/ put options;  
(26) intimation related to any change in covenants or breach of covenants under the 
terms of non -convertible debentures and/or non -convertible redeemable preference 
shares;  
(27) intimation related to forfeiture of unclaimed interest or dividend or princip al 
amount;  
(28) intimation related to any change in the debenture trustee or Credit Rating Agency 
or 747[Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent];  
(29) intimation of comfort/guarantee or any credit enhancement provided by the listed 
entity to a third party;  
(30) any other information/change that:  
(a) shall affect the rights and obligations of the holders of the non -convertible 
securities; and  
(b) is not in the public domain but necessary to enable the holders of the non -
convertible securities to comprehend the true position and to avoid the creation of 
a false market in such listed securities.] 
 
PART C: DISCLOSURES OF MATERIAL EVENTS OR INFORMATION: INDIAN 
DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS 
[See Regulation 68(2)] 
 
A. The listed entity shall promptly inform to the stock exchange(s) of all events which are 
material and/or all information which are price sensitive or  have bearing on 
performance/operation of the listed entity at the same time and to the extent it intimates 
                                                           
747 Substituted for “Registrar and Share Transfer Agent ” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 16.12.2025.

[Page 181]
181 
 
to the listing authority or any other authority in its home country or other jurisdictions 
where its securities may be listed or other stock exchange(s) in its home country or 
other jurisdictions where its securities may be listed including: 
 
(1) any action or investigations initiated by any regulatory or statutory authority and 
the purpose for which it was initiated.  
 
(2) any attachment or prohibitory orders restraining the listed entity from transferring 
securities out of the names of the registered holders and particulars of the registered 
holders thereof.  
 
(3) the meeting of the board of directors which has been held to consider or decide on 
the following : 
(a) all dividends 748[***]bonuses recommended or declared or the decision to 
pass any dividend 749[***]; 
(b) the total turnover, gross profit/loss, provision for depre ciation, tax 
provisions and net profits for the year (with comparison with the previous 
year) and the amounts appropriated from reserves, capital profits, 
accumulated profits of past years or other special source to provide wholly 
or partly for any dividen d, even if this calls for qualification that such 
information is provisional or subject to audit; 
(c) the recommendation or declaration of dividend or rights issue or issue of 
convertible debentures or of debentures carrying a right to subscribe to 
equity shares or the passing over of the dividend  
(d) any decision on buy back of equity shares of the listed entity,; 
 
(4) Change in  
(a) board of directors of listed entity by death, resignation, removal or 
otherwise; 
(b) managing director; 
(c) auditors appointed to audit the books and accounts; 
(d) the compliance officer;  
(e) the 750[registrar and share transfer agent] , domestic depository or the 
overseas custodian bank; 
 
(5) any change in the rights attaching to any class of equity shares into which the Indian 
Depository Receipts are exchangeable; 
(6) short particulars of any increase of capital whether by issue of bonus shares through 
capitalization, or by rights issue of equity shares, or in any other manner; 
(7) short particulars of the reissues of forfeited shares or securities, or the issue of 
shares or securities held in reserve for future issue or the creation in any form or 
manner of new shares or securities or any other rights, privileges or benefits to 
subscribe thereto; 
                                                           
748 The words and symbol “and/or cash bonuses” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
749 The words and symbol “or cash bonus” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024.  
750 Substituted for “ registrar to an issue and/or share transfer agent ” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 16.12.2025.

[Page 182]
182 
 
(8) short particulars of any other alterations of capital, including calls;  
(9) in the event of the listed entity  granting any options to purchase any Indian 
Depository Receipts the following particulars::  
(a) the number of Indian Depository Receipts covered by such options, terms 
thereof and the time within which they may be exercised;  
(b) any subsequent changes or cancellation or exercise of such options; 
 
(10) Notices, resolutions, circulars, call letters or any other circulars etc. issued or 
advertised anywhere with respect to: 
(a) proceedings at all annual and extraordinary general meetings of the listed 
entity, including notices of meetings and proceedings of meeting; 
(b) amendments to its constitutional documents as soon as they have been 
approved by the listed entity in general meeting; 
(c) compliance with requirements in home country or in other jurisdictions 
where such securities are listed; 
(d) any merger, amalgamation, re -construction, reduction of capital, scheme 
or arrangement involving the listed entity including meetings of equity 
shareholders, IDR Holders or any class of them and proceedings at all such 
meetings; 
 
(11) any other information necessary to enable the IDR Holders to appraise the 
listed entity’s position and to avoid the establishment of a false market in 
IDRs; 
 
B. The listed entity shall, apart from complying with all specific requirements  as above, 
intimate the stock exchange(s) immediately of events such as strikes, lock outs, closure 
on account of power cuts, etc. and other material events or price sensitive information 
or events which shall have a material bearing on the performance / o perations of the 
listed entity both at the time of occurrence of the event and subsequently after the 
cessation of the event at the same time and as to the extent that it discloses to holders 
of securities in its home country or in other jurisdictions where such securities are listed; 
 
C. In addition to above, the listed entity shall disclose to the stock exchange(s), any 
information which is disclosed to any other overseas stock exchange(s) or made public 
in any other overseas securities market, on which its securities may be listed or quoted, 
simultaneously with such disclosure or publication, or as soon thereafter as may be 
reasonably practicable; 
 
D. The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange(s) on request any other information 
concerning the listed entity as the stock exchange(s) may reasonably require; 
 
PART D: DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION HAVING BEARING ON 
PERFORMANCE/ OPERATION OF LISTED ENTITY AND/OR PRICE SENSITIVE 
INFORMATION: SECURITISED DEBT INSTRUMENT 
[See Regulation 83(2)] 
 
A. The listed entity shall promptly inform the stock exchange(s) of all information having 
bearing on the performance/operation of the listed entity and  price sensitive 
information including:

[Page 183]
183 
 
 
(1) any attachment or prohibitory orders restraining the listed entity from transferring 
securitized debt instruments from the account of the registered holders and 
particulars of the numbers of securitized debt instruments so affected and the 
names of the registered holders and their demat account details;  
 
(2) any action that shall result in the redemption, conversion, cancellation, retirement 
in whole or in part of any securitized debt instruments;  
 
(3) any action that shall affect adversely payment of interest on securitized debt 
instruments;  
 
(4) any change in the form or nature of any of its securitized debt instruments that are 
listed on the stock exchange(s) or in the rights or privileges of the holders thereof 
and to make an application for listing of the said securities as changed, if the stock 
exchange(s) so requires;  
 
(5) expected default in ti mely payment of interest or redemption or repayment 
amount or both in respect of the securitized debt instruments listed on the 
recognised stock exchange(s) as soon as the same becomes apparent; 
 
(6) changes in the General Character or nature of business / act ivities, disruption of 
operation due to natural calamity etc; 
 
(7)  revision in rating as a result of credit rating done periodically; 
 
(8) delay/ default in payment of interest/principal amount to the investors for a period 
of more than three months from the due date; and 
 
(9) any other change that shall affect the rights and obligations of the holders of 
securitized debt instruments,  any other information not in the public domain 
necessary to enable the holders of the listed securitized debt instruments to 
clarify its position and to avoid the creation of a false market in such listed 
securities or any other information having bearing on the 
operation/performance of the listed entity as well as price sensitive 
information. 
 
751[(10) Outstanding litigations and material developments in relation to the originator 
or servicer or any other party to the transaction which could be prejudicial to the 
interests of the investors shall be disclosed by special purpose distinct entity or its 
trustee to the stock exchange on annual basis. 
 
(11) Disclosure about defaults in connection with servicing obligations undertaken by 
servicer shall be disclosed by special purpose distinct entity or its trustee to the 
stock exchange on annual basis.] 
 
 
                                                           
751 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 01.05.2025.

[Page 184]
184 
 
752[PART E: DISCLOSURE OF EVENTS OR INFORMATION TO STOCK 
EXCHANGES: SECURITY RECEIPTS 
[See Regulation 87B (1)] 
 
A. The following events/information shall be disclosed by the listed entity without any 
application of guidelines of materiality as soon as reasonably possible but not later than 
twenty four hours from occurrence of event or information: 
 
(1) any delay or expected delay in cash flows from the due date or pre - agreed date 
if any; 
 
(2) any change in value of cash-flows as disclosed if any; 
 
(3) any receipt of cash flow or expected cash flow along with quantum so received; 
 
(4) any change in credit enhancement measures; 
 
(5) periodic rating obtained from credit rating agency or any revision in the rating 
or any expected revision in rating; 
 
(6) periodic Net Asset Value;  
 
(7) any proposal to change or change of credit rating agency or Valuer;  
 
(8) any change in profile of the assets by way of accretion to or realisation of assets 
from the existing pool; 
 
(9) any proposal for acquisition of assets including terms of acquisition; 
 
(10) any expected non -realisation or non-realisation of the financial assets and 
remedial measures proposed to be undertaken; 
 
(11) any change in nature of charge on the underlying assets.  
 
(12) any proposal to change or any change in terms of security receipts including 
rights or privileges or nature or form etc.;  
 
(13) any proposal or action with respect to exercising call/put option (right to redeem) 
or any similar option by the listed entity; 
 
(14) any breach of covenant(s) under the terms of security receipts; 
 
(15) any proposal or action for forfeiture of unclaimed cash flow or forfeiture of any 
security receipts;  
 
(16) any change in resolution plan; 
 
                                                           
752 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 06.09.2018.

[Page 185]
185 
 
(17) any change in percentage holding of non-performing loans across other banks;  
 
(18) any change in the general character or nature of business / activities, disruption 
of operation due to natural calamity etc. of the listed entity;  
 
(19) any attachment or prohibitory orders restraining the listed entity from 
transferring security receipts; 
 
(20) initiation or status update with respect to reference to National Company Law 
Tribunal under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 of any underlying 
assets; 
 
(21) intimation in advance of the meeting of its board of directors, at which the 
recommendation or declaration of issue of security receipts or any other matter 
affecting the rights or interests of holders of security receipts is proposed to be 
considered and also outcome of such meetings;  
 
(22) fraud or defaults by sponsor or key managerial personnel or arres t of key 
managerial personnel or sponsor; 
 
(23) change in directors, key managerial personnel (Managing Director, Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer , Company Secretary etc.), Auditor 
and Compliance Officer of the Sponsor; 
 
(24) in addition to the above, the listed entity shall provide all such disclosures to the 
Stock Exchange(s) as it is required to make before the Reserve Bank of India as 
per the extant requirement and/or any other disclosure(s) as prescribed by 
Reserve Bank of India from time to time; 
 
(25) in case where an event occurs or an information is available with the listed entity, 
which has not been indicated in these regulations, but which may be material, 
the listed entity is required to make adequate disclosures in this regard.] 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE IV 
PART A: DISCLOSURES IN FINANCIAL RESULTS 
[See Regulation 33(1)(e)] 
 
The listed entity shall disclose the following while preparing the financial results:- 
 
A. Changes in accounting policies, if any, shall be disclosed in accordance with 
Accounting Standard 5 or Indian Accounting Standard 8, as applicable, specified in 
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with relevant rules framed thereunder or 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, whichever is applicable.

[Page 186]
186 
 
B. If the auditor has expressed any modified opinion(s) [***]753 in respect of audited financial 
results submitted or published under this para, the listed entity  shall disclose such 
modified opinion(s) [***]754 and cumulative impact of the same on profit or loss, net 
worth, total assets, turnover/total income, earning per share [, total expenditure, total 
liabilities]755 or any other financial item(s) which may be impacted due to modified 
opinion(s) [***]756, while publishing or submitting such results. 
 
[BA. If the auditor has expressed any modified opinion(s), the management of the listed 
entity has the option to explain its views on the audit qualifications and the same shall be 
included in the Statement on Impact  of Audit Qualifications (for audit report with 
modified opinion). 
 
BB. With respect to audit qualifications where the impact of the qualification is not 
quantifiable: 
 
757[i. The management shall mandatorily make an estimate which the auditor shall 
review and report accordingly. 
ii. Notwithstanding the above, the management may be permitted to not provide 
estimate on matters like going concerns or sub-judice matters; in which case, the 
management shall provide the reasons and the auditor shall review the same and 
report accordingly.]]758 
 
C. If the auditor has expressed any modified opinion(s) or other reservation(s) in his 
759[/her] audit report or limited review report in respect of the financial results of any 
previous financial year or quarter which has an impac t on the profit or loss of the 
reportable period, the listed entity shall include as a note to the financial results – 
(i) how the modified opinion(s) or other reservation(s) has been resolved; or  
(ii) if the same has not been resolved, the reason thereof and the steps which 
the listed entity intends to take in the matter. 
 
D. If the listed entity has changed its name suggesting any new line of business, it shall 
disclose the net sales or income, expenditure and net profit or loss after tax figures 
pertaining to the said new line of business separately in the financial results and shall 
                                                           
753 The words ‘or other reservation(s)’ omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016 
754 The words ‘or other reservation(s)’ omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016 
755 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
01.04.2016 
756 The words ‘or other reservation(s)’ omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 01.04.2016 
757 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019. Prior to the substitution, the sub-clauses read as follows: 
“i. The management shall make an estimate and the auditor shall review the same and report accordingly; or  
ii. If the management is unable to make an estimate, it shall provide the reasons and the auditor shall review the 
same and report accordingly. 
The above shall be included in the statement on impact of audit qualifications (for audit report with modified 
opinion).” 
758 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
01.04.2016 
759 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021.

[Page 187]
187 
 
continue to make such disclosures for the three years succeeding the date of change in 
name: 
Provided that the tax expense shall be allocated between the said new line of business 
and other business of the listed entity in the ratio of the respective figures of net profit 
before tax, subject to any exemption, deduction or concession available under the tax 
laws. 
 
E. If the listed entity  had not commenced commercial production or commercial 
operations during the reportable period, the listed entity shall, instead of submitting 
financial results, disclose the following details: 
(i) details of amount raised i.e. proceeds of any issue of shares or debentures made 
by the listed entity; 
(ii) the portions thereof which is utilized and that remaining unutilized; 
(iii) the details of investment made pending utilisation ; 
(iv) brief description of the project which is pending completion; 
(v) status of the project and 
(vi) expected date of commencement of commercial production or  commercial 
operations: 
 
Provided that the details mentioned above shall be approved by the board of directors 
based on certification by the chief executive officer and chief financial officer.  
 
F. All items of income and expenditure arising out of transacti ons of exceptional nature 
shall be disclosed.  
 
G. Extraordinary items, if applicable, shall be disclosed in accordance with Accounting 
Standard 5 (AS 5 – Net Profit or Loss for the Period, Prior Period Items and Changes 
in Accounting Policies) or Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006, whichever 
is applicable.  
 
H. The listed entity, whose revenues are subject to material seasonal variations, shall 
disclose the seasonal nature of their activities and the listed entity may supplement 
their financial results with information for the twelve month period ending on the last 
day of the quarter for the current and preceding years on a rolling basis.  
 
I. The listed entity  shall disclose any event or transaction which occurred during or 
before the quarter that is mate rial to an understanding of the results for the quarter 
including but not limited to completion of expansion and diversification programmes, 
strikes and lock-outs, change in management, change in capital structure and the listed 
entity shall also disclose similar material events or transactions that take place 
subsequent to the end of the quarter.  
 
J. The listed entity  shall disclose the following in respect of dividends paid or 
recommended for the year, including interim dividends : 
(i) amount of dividend distri buted or proposed for distribution per share; the 
amounts in respect of different classes of shares shall be distinguished and the 
nominal values of shares shall also be indicated; 
(ii) where dividend is paid or proposed to be paid pro-rata for shares allotted during 
the year, the date of allotment and number of shares allotted, pro -rata amount

[Page 188]
188 
 
of dividend per share and the aggregate amount of dividend paid or proposed 
to be paid on pro-rata basis. 
 
K. The listed entity shall disclose the effect on the financial results of material changes in 
the composition of the listed entity , if any, including but not limited to business 
combinations, acquisitions or disposal of subsidiaries and long term investments, any 
other form of restructuring and discontinuance of operations. 
 
L. The listed entity shall ensure that segment reporting is done in accordance with AS-17 
or Indian Accounting Standard 108 as applicable, specified in Section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with relevant rules framed thereunder or by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India, whichever is applicable.

[Page 189]
189 
 
SCHEDULE IV: PART B: PREPARTION AND DISCLSOURES IN FINANCIAL 
RESULTS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS INDIAN DEPOSITORY 
RECEIPTS 
[See Regulation 70(2) and 71(3)] 
 
The listed entity shall comply with the following requirements while preparing the 
financial results:- 
 
A. Periodicity of Disclosure of Financial Results  
(1) Financial results may be given on annual, half yearly and/or quarterly basis, as 
required under the requirements of the home country.  
 
B. Accounting Principle to be used in preparation and disclosure of financial 
Results: 
(1)  The listed entity may prepare and disclose its financial results in accordance with 
Indian GAAP or International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or US GAAP  
  
(2) In case the listed entity prepares and discloses the financial results as per US 
GAAP, a reconciliation statement vis -a-vis Indian GAAP and summary of 
significant differences between the Indian GAAP and US GAAP has to be 
annexed.  
 
(3) If financial results are prepared in accordance with IFRS, then listed entity shall 
annex only the summary of significant differences between the Indian GAAP and 
IFRS. 
 
(4) If the listed entity is shifting from IFRS to US GAAP or vice ve rsa then the 
accounts relating to the previous period shall be properly restated for comparison; 
 
(5) The Accounting / Reporting Standard followed for any interim results shall be 
consistent with that of the Annual results. 
 
(6) The financial results so submitted shall be based on the same set o f accounting 
policies as those followed in the previous year provided that in case, there are 
changes in the accounting policies, the results of previous year shall be restated as 
per the present accounting policies, to make it comparable with current year  
results; 
 
C. Auditing/Limited Review 
(1) In case the listed entity prepares and discloses the financial results as per Indian 
GAAP, the listed entity shall ensure that the annual, half yearly and/or quarterly 
results, as required under the laws , rules or regulations of home country, shall be 
audited or subject to limited review by a Chartered Accountant in accordance with 
Auditing ad Assurance Standards.  
 
(2) In case the listed entity prepares and discloses the financial results as per US 
GAAP or IFRS, the li sted entity shall ensure that the annual, half yearly and/or 
quarterly results, as required under the laws, rules or regulations of home country 
shall be audited or subject to limited review by professional accountant or certified 
public accountant in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing. The

[Page 190]
190 
 
auditor’s report shall also be prepared in accordance with the International 
Standards on Auditing. 
 
D. Disclosures 
(1) The listed entity shall disclose the audit qualification(s) or any other audit 
reservation(s) along with the financial results in addition to the explanatory 
statement as to how audit qualification(s) or any other audit reservation(s) in 
respect of the audited accounts of the previous accounting year have been 
addressed in the financial results; 
 
(2) Format 
(a) The listed entity shall ensure that, if Indian GAAP is followed in preparation 
of the financial results the format of the disclosure of financial results shall 
be as prescribed by the Board.  
 
(b) In case if Indian GAAP is not followed, the format of such disclosure shall 
be as per the disclosure requirements of the listed entity in the home country 
where the listed entity is listed.  
 
(3) The listed entity shall make disclosures of its financial information in its functional 
currency/reporting currency/national currency and the reporting currency shall be 
restricted to Sterling Pound/Euro/Yen/US Dollar.  
 
(4) The listed entity shall provide convenient translation into Indian Rupees of the 
latest year’s/periods statements (as the case may be) of consolidated profit and 
losses, assets and liabilities and cash flows, at the closing rate of exchange, as at 
the date on which the financial information is presented. 
 
(5) The listed entity shall provide convenient trans lations in English and other notes 
such that the IDR Holders are able to understand such financial statements.

[Page 191]
191 
 
SCHEDULE V: ANNUAL REPORT  
[See Regulation 34(3) and 53(f)]  
 
The annual report shall contain the following additional disclosures:  
 
A.  Related Party Disclosure:  
1. The listed entity 760[which has listed its non -convertible securities] shall  make 
disclosures in compliance with the Accounting Standard on “Related Party 
Disclosures”.   
 
2. The disclosure requirements shall be as follows: 
Sr. 
no. 
In the 
accounts of  
Disclosures of amounts at the year end and the maximum amount of 
loans/ advances/ Investments outstanding during the year. 
1 Holding 
Company 
 Loans and advances in the nature of loans to subsidiaries by name 
and amount. 
 Loans and advances in the nature of loans to associates by name 
and amount. 
 Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/companies in 
which directors are interested by name and amount. 
2 Subsidiary Same disclosures as applicable to the parent company in the accounts 
of subsidiary company. 
3 Holding 
Company 
Investments by the loanee in the shares of parent company and 
subsidiary company, when the company has made a loan or advance 
in the nature of loan.  
 
For the purpose of above disclosures directors’ interest shall have the same 
meaning as given in Section184 of Companies Act, 2013.  
 
761[(2A) Disclosures of transactions of the listed entity with any person or entity 
belonging to the promoter/promoter group  which hold(s) 10% or more 
shareholding in the listed entity, in the format prescribed in the relevant accounting 
standards for annual results.] 
 
3. 762[ The above disclosures shall not be applicable to listed banks.] 
 
B. Management Discussion and Analysis:  
 
1. This section shall include discussion on the following matters within the limits set 
by the listed entity’s competitive position: 
(a) Industry structure and developments. 
(b) Opportunities and Threats. 
(c) Segment–wise or product-wise performance. 
(d) Outlook 
                                                           
760 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) ( Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. 
761 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.  
762 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. Prior to the substitution, clause (3) read as under:  
“3. The above disclosures shall be applicable to all listed entities except for listed banks.”

[Page 192]
192 
 
(e) Risks and concerns. 
(f) Internal control systems and their adequacy. 
(g) Discussion on financial performance with respect to operational performance. 
(h) Material developments in Human Resources / Industrial Relations front, 
including number of people employed. 
763[(i) details of significant changes (i.e. change of 25% or more as compared to 
the immediately previous financial year) in key financial ratios, along with detailed 
explanations therefor, including:  
(i) Debtors Turnover 
(ii) Inventory Turnover 
(iii) Interest Coverage Ratio 
(iv)  Current Ratio 
(v) Debt Equity Ratio 
(vi)  Operating Profit Margin (%) 
(vii) Net Profit Margin (%) 
or sector-specific equivalent ratios, as applicable. 
(j) details of any change in Return on Net Worth as compared to the immediately  
previous financial year along with a detailed explanation thereof.] 
 
2. Disclosure of Accounting Treatment:  
 Where in the preparation of financial statements, a treatment different from that 
prescribed in an Accounting Standard has been followed, the fact shall be disclosed 
in the financial statements, together with the management’s explanation as to why 
it believes such alternative treatment is more representative of the true and fair view 
of the underlying business transaction. 
 
C. Corporate Governance Report: The following disclosures shall be made in the 
section on the corporate governance of the annual report.  
 
(1) A brief statement on listed entity’s philosophy on code of governance.  
 
(2) Board of directors: 
(a) composition and category of  directors (e.g. promoter, executive, non -
executive, independent non -executive, nominee director - institution 
represented and whether as lender or as equity investor); 
(b) attendance of each director at the meeting of the board of directors and the 
last annual general meeting; 
(c) number of other board of directors or committees in which a directors is a 
member or chairperson764[, and with effect from the Annual Report for the 
year ended 31st March 2019, including separately the names of the listed 
entities where the person is a director and the category of directorship];  
(d) number of meetings of the board of directors held and dates on which held; 
(e) disclosure of relationships between directors inter-se; 
(f) number of shares and convertible instruments held by non - executive 
directors; 
(g) web link where details of familiarisation programmes imparted to 
independent directors is disclosed. 
                                                           
763 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.  
764 Inserted ibid., w.e.f from the date specified in the provision.

[Page 193]
193 
 
765[(h) A chart or a matrix setting out the skills/expertise/competence of the 
board of directors specifying the following: 
(i) With effect from the financial year ending March 31, 2019, the 
list of core skills/expertise/competencies identified by the board of 
directors as required in the context of its business(es) and sector(s) for 
it to function effectively and those actually av ailable with the board; 
and  
(ii) With effect from the financial year ended March 31, 2020, the 
names of directors who have such skills / expertise / competence  
(i) confirmation that in the opinion of the board, the independent directors fulfill 
the condi tions specified in these regulations and are independent of the 
management. 
(j) detailed reasons for the resignation of an independent director who resigns 
before the expiry of his 766[/her] tenure along with a confirmation by such 
director that there are no other material reasons other than those provided.] 
 
(3) Audit committee: 
(a) brief description of terms of reference; 
(b) composition, name of members and chairperson; 
(c) meetings and attendance during the year. 
 
(4) Nomination and Remuneration Committee: 
(a) brief description of terms of reference; 
(b) composition, name of members and chairperson; 
(c) meeting and attendance during the year; 
(d) performance evaluation criteria for independent directors. 
 
(5) 767[Stakeholders’ relationship committee 
(a) name of the non-executive director heading the committee;  
(b) name and designation of the compliance officer; 
(c) number of shareholders’ complaints received during the financial year;  
(d) number of complaints not solved to the satisfaction of shareholders;  
                                                           
765 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requiremen ts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.  
766 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
767 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. Prior to the substitution, clause (5) read as follows:  
“Remuneration of Directors:  
(a) all pecuniary relationship or transactions of the non-executive directors vis-à-vis the listed entity 
shall be disclosed in the annual report; 
(b) criteria of making payments to non -executive directors. alternatively, this may be disseminated 
on the listed entity’s website and reference drawn thereto in the annual report;  
(c) disclosures with respect to remuneration: in addition to disclosures required under the 
Companies Act, 2013, the following disclosures shall be made: 
(i) all elements of remuneration package of individual directors summarized under major 
groups, such as salary, benefits, bonuses, stock options, pension etc; 
(ii) details of fixed component and performance linked incentives, along with the performance 
criteria; 
(iii) service contracts, notice period, severance fees; 
(iv) stock option details, if any and whether issued at a discount as well as the period over which 
accrued and over which exercisable.”

[Page 194]
194 
 
(e) number of pending complaints.] 
 
768[(5A) Risk management committee: 
(a) brief description of terms of reference; 
(b) composition, name of members and chairperson; 
(c)meetings and attendance during the year;] 
 
769[(5B) Senior management: 
Particulars of senior management including the changes therein since the close 
of the previous financial year.] 
 
(6)  770[Remuneration of directors: 
(a) all pecuniary relationship or transactions of the non -executive 
directors vis-à-vis the listed entity;  
(b) criteria of making payments to non -executive directors. 
Alternatively, this may be disseminated on the listed entity’s website 
and reference drawn thereto in the annual report; 
(c) disclosures with respect to remuneration: in addition to disclosures 
required under the Companies Act, 2013, the following disclosu res 
shall be made: 
(i) all elements of remuneration package of individual directors 
summarized under major groups, such as salary, benefits, 
bonuses, stock options, pension etc;  
(ii) details of fixed component and performance linked 
incentives, along with the performance criteria;  
(iii) service contracts, notice period, severance fees; 
(iv) stock option details, if any and whether issued at a discount 
as well as the period over w hich accrued and over which 
exercisable.] 
 
(7) General body meetings: 
(a) location and time, where last three annual general meetings held; 
(b) whether any special resolutions passed in the previous three annual general 
meetings; 
(c) whether any special resolution passed last year through postal ballot – 
details of voting pattern; 
(d) person who conducted the postal ballot exercise; 
(e) whether any special resolution is proposed to be conducted through postal 
ballot; 
                                                           
768 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
769 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023. 
770 Substituted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. Prior to the substitution, clause (6) read as follows: 
“ Stakeholders' grievance committee: 
(a) name of non-executive director heading the committee; 
(b) name and designation of compliance officer; 
(c) number of shareholders’ complaints received so far; 
(d) number not solved to the satisfaction of shareholders; 
(e) number of pending complaints.”

[Page 195]
195 
 
(f) procedure for postal ballot. 
 
(8) Means of communication: 
(a) quarterly results; 
(b) newspapers wherein results normally published; 
(c) any website, where displayed; 
(d) whether it also displays official news releases; and 
(e) presentations made to institutional investors or to the analysts. 
 
(9) General shareholder information: 
(a) annual general meeting - date, time and venue; 
(b) financial year; 
(c) dividend payment date; 
(d) the name and address of each stock exchange(s) at which the listed entity's 
securities are listed and a confirmation about payment of a nnual listing fee 
to each of such stock exchange(s); 
(e) 771[***] 
(f) 772[***] 
(g) 773[***]  
(h) in case the securities are suspended from trading, the directors report shall 
explain the reason thereof; 
(i) registrar to an issue and share transfer agents;  
(j) share transfer system;  
(k) distribution of shareholding;  
(l) dematerialization of shares and liquidity;  
(m) outstanding global depository receipts or american depository receipts or 
warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion date and likely 
impact on equity;  
(n) commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities;  
(o) plant locations;  
(p) address for correspondence.  
774[(q) list of all credit ratings obtained by the entity along with any revisions 
thereto during the relevant financial year, for all debt instruments of such entity 
or any fixed deposit programme or any scheme or proposal of the listed entity 
involving mobilization of funds, whether in India or abroad.] 
 
(10) Other Disclosures: 
(a) disclosures on materially significant related party transactions that may 
have potential conflict with the interests of listed entity at large;  
(b) details of non -compliance by the listed entity, penalties, strictures 
                                                           
771 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the clause read as under- 
“(e) stock code;” 
772 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the clause read as under- 
“(f) market price data- high, low during each month in last financial year;” 
773 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 13.12.2024. Prior to the omission, the clause  read as under- 
“(g) performance in comparison to broad-based indices such as BSE sensex, CRISIL Index etc;” 
774 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.

[Page 196]
196 
 
imposed on the listed entity by stock exchange(s) or the board or any 
statutory authority, on any matter related to capital markets, during the 
last three years;  
(c) details of establishment of vigil mechanism 775[/] whistle blower policy, and 
affirmation that no personnel has been denied access to the audit committee; 
(d) details of compliance with mandatory requirements and adoption of the non-
mandatory requirements; 
(e) web link where policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries is disclosed; 
(f) web link where policy on dealing with related party transactions;  
(g) disclosure of commodity price risks and commodity hedging activities. 
776[(h) Details of utilization of funds raised through preferential allotment or 
qualified institutions placement as specified under Regulation 32 (7A).  
(i) a certificate from a company secretary in practice that none of the directors 
on the board of the com pany have been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as directors of companies by the Board/Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority. 
(j) where the board had not accepted any recommendation of any committee of 
the board which is mandatorily required, in the relevant financial year, the same 
to be disclosed along with reasons thereof: 
Provided that the clause shall only apply where recommendation of / submission 
by the committee is required for the approval of the Board of Directors and shall 
not apply where prior  approval of the relevant committee is required for 
undertaking any transaction under these Regulations. 
(k) total fees for all services paid by the listed entity and its subsidiaries, on a 
consolidated basi s, to the statutory auditor and all entities in the network 
firm/network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part.] 
777[(l) disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013: 
a. number of complaints filed during the financial year  
b. number of complaints disposed of during the financial year  
c. number of complaints pending as on end of the financial year.] 
778[(m) disclosure by listed entity and its subsidiaries of ‘Loans and advances 
in the nature of loans to firms/companies in which directors are interested by 
name and amount’: 
Provided that this requirement shall be applicable to all listed entities except 
for listed banks.] 
779[(n) Details of material subsidiaries of the listed entity; incl uding the date 
and place of incorporation and the name and date of appointment of the 
statutory auditors of such subsidiaries.] 
  
                                                           
775 Substituted for “,” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 5.5.2021. 
776 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 1.4.2019.  
777 Inserted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 16.11.2018. 
778 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) ( Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, w.e.f. 1.4.2022. 
779 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, 
w.e.f. 17.1.2023, to be applicable for Annual Reports filed for the financial year 2022-2023 and thereafter.

[Page 197]
197 
 
(11) Non-compliance of any requirement of corporate governance report of sub -
paras (2) to (10) above, with reasons thereof shall be disclosed. 
 
(12) The corporate governance report shall also disclose the extent to which the 
discretionary requirements as specified in Part E of Schedule II have been 
adopted. 
 
(13) The disclosures of the compliance with corporate governance requirements 
specified in regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub -regulation (2) of 
regulation 46 shall be made in the section on corporate governance of the annual 
report. 
 
D. Declaration signed by the chief executive officer stating that the members of 
board of directors and senior management personnel have affirmed 
compliance with the code of conduct of board of directors and senior 
management.  
 
E. Compliance certificate from ei ther the auditors or practicing company 
secretaries regarding compliance of conditions of corporate governance shall 
be annexed with the directors’ report. 
 
F. Disclosures with respect to demat suspense account/ unclaimed suspense account 
(1) The listed entity shall disclose the following details in its annual report, as long as 
there are shares in the demat suspense account or unclaimed suspense account, as 
applicable : 
(a) aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying at the beginning of the year; 
(b) number of shareholders who approached listed entity for transfer of shares 
from suspense account during the year; 
(c) number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from suspense 
account during the year; 
(d) aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying at the end of the year; 
(e) that the voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful 
owner of such shares claims the shares. 
 
G. 780[Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding listed entities 
(1) Information disclosed under clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III of 
these regulations.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
780 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligati ons and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 15.7.2023.

[Page 198]
198 
 
SCHEDULE VI: MANNER OF DEALING WITH UNCLAIMED SHARES 
[See Regulation 39(4)] 
 
A. The listed entity may delegate the following procedural requirements to a 781[registrar 
to an issue and share transfer agent].  
 
B. Reminders to be sent 
(1) The listed entity s hall send at least three reminders at the address as mentioned 
below:  
(a) For shares in physical form, reminders shall be sent to the address given in 
the application form as well as last available address as per listed entity ’s 
record.  
(b) For shares in demat form, reminders shall be sent to the address captured in 
depository’s database or address given in the application form, in case of 
application made in physical form.  
 
C. Procedure in case of non receipt of response to reminders  
(1) For shares in demat form, the unclaimed shares shall be credited to a demat 
suspense account with one of the Depository Participants, opened by the listed 
entity for this purpose.  
(2) For shares in physical form, the listed entity shall transfer all the shares into one 
folio in the name of “Unclaimed Suspense Account” and shall dematerialise the 
shares he ld in the  Unclaimed Suspense Account with one of the  Depository 
Participants. 
(3) The listed entity shall maintain details of shareholding of each individual allottee 
whose shares are credited to such demat suspense account or unclaimed suspense 
account, as applicable.  
(4) The demat suspense account or unclaimed  suspense account, as applicable  shall 
be held by the listed entity purely on behalf of the allottees who are entitled to the 
shares and the shares held in such suspense account shall not be transferred in any 
manner whatsoever except for the purpose of allotting the shares to the allottee as 
and when he/she approaches the listed entity. 
 
  Provided that all such shares, in respect of which unpaid or unclaimed dividend has 
been transferred under Section 124 (5) of the Companies Act, 2013, shall also be 
transferred by the listed entity in accordance with Section 124 (6) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder. 
 
D. Procedure in case of claim by allottee  
(1) As and when the allottee approaches the listed entity, the listed entity shall, after 
proper verification of the identity of the allottee either credit the shares lying in 
the Unclaimed Suspense Account or demat suspense account, as applicable, to the 
demat account of the allottee to the extent of the allottee’s entitlement 782[***] 
                                                           
781 Substituted for “share transfer agent” by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 16.12.2025. 
782 The words “, or deliver the physical certificates after re-materialising the same, depending on what has been 
opted for by the allottee:” omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 24.1.2022.

[Page 199]
199 
 
E.   783[***] Dealing with Corporate Benefits (in terms of securities accruing) 
and Voting Rights on such Unclaimed Shares 
(1) Any corporate benefits in terms of securities accruing on such shares viz. bonus 
shares, split et c., shall a lso be credited to such demat suspense account or 
unclaimed suspense account, as applicable for a period of seven years and 
thereafter shall be transferred by the listed entity in accordance with provisions 
of Section 124(5) read with Section 124 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules 
made thereunder. 
 
(2) The voting rights on such unclaimed shares shall remain frozen till the rightful 
owner claims the shares. 
 
  
                                                           
783 Omitted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 20 22, 
w.e.f. 24.1.2022. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as under, - 
“Provided that the rematerialising of the physical certificates shall be done only in case where the shares 
were originally issued in physical form.”

[Page 200]
200 
 
SCHEDULE VII: TRANSFER 784[AND TRANSMISSION] OF SECURITIES  
[See Regulation 40(7) and 61(4)] 
 
A. REQUIREMENT OF PAN  
 
(1) For registration of transfer of securities, the transferee(s) as well as transferor(s) 
shall furnish a copy of their PAN card to the listed entity for registration of transfer 
of securities.  
 
(2) [***]785  
 
(3) In cases where PAN card is not available i.e. in case of residents of Sikkim, the 
requirement of PAN Card may be substituted with Identity proof.  
 
(4) In case of mismatch in PAN card details as well as difference in maiden name and 
current name, in case of ma rried women, of the holder(s) of securities, the listed 
entity may collect the PAN card as submitted by the transferee(s) or transferor(s) 
as the case maybe:  
Provided that this shall be subject to the listed entity verifying the veracity of the 
claim of s uch transferee(s) or transferor(s) by collecting sufficient documentary 
evidence in support of the identity of the transferee(s) or transferor(s). 
 
B. DIFFERENCES IN SIGNATURE  
  
(1)  In case of minor differences in the signature of the transferor(s), the listed entity 
shall follow the following procedure for registering transfer of securities: 
(a)   the listed entity shall promptly send to the first transferor(s), via speed post 
an intimation of  the aforesaid de fect in the documents and inform the 
transferor(s) that objection, supported by valid proof, is not lodged by the 
transferor(s) with the listed entity within fifteen days of receipt of the listed 
entity’s letter, then the securities shall be transferred; 
(b)  if the intimation to the transferor(s) is delivered and the objection from the 
transferor(s) with supporting documents is not received within fifteen days, 
the listed entity shall transfer the securities provided the listed entity does 
not suspect fraud or forgery in the matter: 
. 
786[***] 
 
(2) In case of major differences in, or non -availability of, the signature of the 
transferor(s), the listed entity shall follow the following procedure for registering 
transfer of securities: 
                                                           
784 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 25.4.2022. 
785 Omitted by SEBI (Listin g Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 08.06.2018. Prior to omission, sub-clause (2) read as follows- 
“For securities market transactions and/or for off-market or private transactions involving transfer of shares 
in physical form, the transferee(s) as well as transferor(s) shall furnish copy of PAN card to the listed entity 
for registration of such transfer of securities.” 
786 Omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025, 
w.e.f. 08.09.2025. Prior to omission, the proviso read as follows- 
“Provided that the listed entity shall maintain proof of delivery for in their record(s).”

[Page 201]
201 
 
 
(a) The listed entity shall promptly send  to the transferee(s), via Speed Post, an 
Objection Memo along with the documents in original marking the reason as 
“material signature difference/ non -availability of signature” and an advice to 
ensure submission of requested documents of the transferor(s ); 
 
(b) The listed entity shall also send a copy of the Objection memo as per clause 
(a) of sub-para (2) to the transferor(s), via Speed Post, simultaneously;  
 
(c) The above Objection Memo in clause (a) and (b) of sub-para (2) shall also state 
the requirement of a dditional documents of transferor(s) as follows for 
effecting the transfer:  
(i) an Affidavit to update transferor(s) signature in its records;  
(ii) an original unsigned cancelled cheque and banker’s attestation of the 
transferor(s) signature and address);  
(iii) contact details of the transferor(s) and ; 
 
(d) If the intimation to both the transferor(s) and the transferee(s) are delivered, 
requested documents of the transferor(s) are submitted to the l isted entity and 
the address attested by the bank tallies with the address available in the 
database of listed entity, the listed entity, shall transfer the securities provided 
the listed entity does not suspect fraud or forgery in the matter:  
 
787[***] 
 
788[*** ] 
                                                           
787 Omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2025, w.e.f. 08.09.2025. Prior to omission, the proviso read as follows- 
“Provided that listed entity shall maintain proof of delivery in their record(s).”  
788 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 14-07-2026. Prior to its omission, clause C read as follows- 
“C. Documentation requirements in case of transmission of securities. 
(1) In case of transmission of securities, where the securities are held in single name with nomination, the 
following documents shall be submitted:  
         (a) duly signed transmission request form by the nominee; 
         (b) original death certificate or copy of death certificate attested by the nominee subject to verification with 
the original or copy of death certificate duly attested by a notary public or by a Gazetted Officer; 
         (c) self-attested copy of the Permanent Account Number card of the nominee, issue d by the Income Tax 
Department. 
(2) In case of transmission of securities, where the securities are held in single name without nomination, the 
following documents shall be submitted:  
        (a) a notarized affidavit from all legal heir (s) made on non -judicial stamp paper of appropriate value, to 
the    effect of identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities:  
         Provided that in case the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) are named in the Succession Certificate or Probate o f 
Will or Will or Letter of Administration as may be applicable in terms of Indian Succession Act, 1925 (39 
of 1925) or Legal Heirship Certificate or its equivalent certificate issued by a competent Government 
Authority, an affidavit from such legal heir(s)/claimant(s) alone shall be sufficient; 
         (b) duly signed transmission request form by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s); 
         (c) original death certificate or copy of death certificate attested by the legal heir(s)/claimant(s) subject to 
verification with the original or copy of death certificate duly attested by a notary public or by a Gazetted 
Officer; 
        (d) self-attested copy of the Permanent Account Number card of the legal heir(s)/claimant(s), issued by the 
Income Tax Department;

[Page 202]
202 
 
 
  
                                                           
        (e) a copy of Succession Certificate or Probate of Will or Will or Letter of Administration or Court Decree 
as may be applicable in terms of Indian Succession Act, 1925 (39 of 1925) or Legal Heirship Certificate or 
its equivalent certificate issued  by a competent Government Authority, attested by the legal 
heir(s)/claimant(s) subject to verification with the original or duly attested by a notary public or by a 
Gazetted Officer: 
         Provided that in a case where a copy of Will or a Legal Heirship Certificate or its equivalent certificate 
issued by a competent Government Authority is submitted, the same shall be accompanied with a notarized 
indemnity bond from the legal heir(s) /claimant(s) to whom the securities are transmitted, in the  format 
specified by the Board: 
         Provided further that in a case where a copy of Legal Heirship Certificate or its equivalent certificate 
issued by a competent Government Authority is submitted, the same shall also be accompanied with a No 
Objection fr om all non -claimants, stating that they have relinquished their rights to the claim for 
transmission of securities; 
        (f) for cases where value of securities is up to rupees five lakhs per listed entity in case of securities held in 
physical mode, an d up to rupees fifteen lakhs per beneficial owner in case of securities held in 
dematerialized mode, as on date of application, and where the documents mentioned in para (e) are not 
available, the legal heir(s) /claimant(s) may submit the following documents:  
          (i) no objection certificate from all legal heir(s) stating that they do not object to such transmission or 
copy of family settlement deed executed by all the legal heirs duly attested by a notary public or by  a 
Gazetted Officer; and  
         (ii) a notarized indemnity bond made on non -judicial stamp paper of approp riate value, indemnifying the  
Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent/ listed entity, in the format specified by the Board: 
         Provided that the listed entity may, at its discretion, enhance the value of securities from the threshold limit 
of rupees five lakhs, in case of securities held in physical mode.”

[Page 203]
203 
 
SCHEDULE VIII [***]789 
 
                                                           
789 Omitted by SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 
01.04.2016. Prior to omission, Schedule VIII read as follows: 
‘MANNER OF REVIEWING FORM B ACCOMPANYING ANNUAL AUDITED RESULTS  
[See Regulations 33(6) and 33(7) , 52(3)(b) and 52(3)(c) and 95] 
 
A. REVIEW BY STOCK EXCHANGE(S) 
 The stock exchange(s) shall adopt the following procedure for reviewing the Form B and accompanying 
annual audit reports submitted in terms of clause (d) of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 33 and clause (a) of 
sub-regulation (3) of 52: 
 
(1) Stock exchange(s) shall carry out preliminary scrutiny of reports accompanied by Form B including 
seeking necessary explanation from the listed entity concerned and consider the same based on 
materiality of the modified opinion(s).  
 
(2) The parameters for ascertaining the materiality of modified opinion(s) shall be the impact of these 
modified opinions on the profit and loss and financial position of the listed entity.  
 
(3) For the purpose of uniformity, stock exchange(s) shall consult one another for deciding the criteria 
for preliminary scrutiny.  
 
(4) Further, stock exchange(s) shall also consult one another for distributing the work in case shares of 
the listed entity concerned are listed on more than one stock exchange(s).  
 
(5)  Upon examining the audit reports based on the above pa rameters, stock exchange(s) shall refer 
those cases, which, in their opinion, need further examination, to the Board.  
 
(6) Stock exchange(s) shall display the list of listed entities which have filed their audit reports along 
with Form B. 
 
B. REVIEW BY THE QUALIFIED AUDIT REPORT REVIEW COMMITTEE  
 
(1) The qualified audit report review committee shall be constituted by the board comprising of 
representatives from Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, stock exchange(s), Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs etc.  
 
(2) The qualified audit report review committee shall review the cases received from the stock 
exchange(s) and guide the Board in processing the annual audit reports with modified opinion(s).  
 
(3) After analyzing the modified opinion(s) in audit rep orts, qualified audit report review committee 
may make the following recommendations:  
 
(a) If qualified audit report review committee  is of the view that  the impact of modified opinion 
is not significant, it may recommend rectification of such modified opinio n in the subsequent 
financial year;  
 
(b) If qualified audit report review committee  is of the view that the impact of modified opinion  
is significant and the explanation given by the listed entity concerned in Form B is 
unsatisfactory, the case may be referre d to the Financial Reporting Review Board of Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India, for their opinion on whether the modified opinion is 
justified.  
 
(c) Based on the opinion of the financial reporting review board, qualified audit report review 
committee may recommend the following: 
  
(i) If Financial Reporting Review Board opines that modified opinion is justified, 
qualified audit report review committee may recommend submission of revised pro -

[Page 204]
204 
 
 
  
                                                           
forma financial results, incorporating the effect of the  modified opinion, to the stock 
exchange(s) in the manner as specified in para (E) below.  
 
(ii) If financial reporting review board is of the view that modified opinion is not justified, 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India may take up the matter appropriately with 
the statutory auditor of the listed entity. 
 
(d) If a modified opinion is not quantifiable, qualified audit report review committee may 
recommend rectification of such modified opinion in the subsequent financial year . 
 
C. Based on the recommendation s of qualified audit report review committee and/or the opinion of 
Financial Reporting Review Board, the Board may direct the listed entity concerned to rectify its 
modified opinion and/or submit the revised pro -forma financial results in the manner specif ied in sub-
para (3) of para (B).  
 
D. The Board may, at any stage, in the interest of investors, take any other necessary action as it deems fit.  
 
E. SUBMISSION OF REVISED PRO-FORMA FINANCIAL RESULTS  
(1) The listed entity shall undertake the following steps for submission of revised pro-forma financial 
results: 
(a) The listed entity shall submit revised pro -forma financial results, incorporating the effect of 
the modified opinion, to the stock exchange(s) within two months from the date of receipt of 
such direction from Board. 
(b) The accounting impact of such modified opinion shall be carried out as a prior period item in 
the financial statements of the subsequent financial year. 
 
F.The review of all Form Bs and the accompanying annual audit reports shall be carried out tw ice a year 
based on the reports received up to half year ending on June and December of every year and for this 
purpose, the following timelines are prescribed:  
 
Activity To be completed by 
Filing of annual audit reports and Form A/Form B by the 
listed entity 
As per the regulations 
Preliminary scrutiny of the reports received during the half 
year (January - June and July - December each year) by stock 
exchange(s) and referring cases to the Board  
One month from the end of half year ending on 
June and December each year.  
Review of the cases by qualified audit report review 
committee  
One month from the date of receipt of report 
from the stock exchange(s).  
Referring cases to Financial Reporting Review Board of 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India  
Fifteen days from the date of decision of the 
qualified audit report review committee  
Receipt of reply from Financial Reporting Review Board One month from the date of referral by 
qualified audit report review committee  
Communication of decision on the case to the listed entity 
concerned and the stock exchange(s).  
Fifteen days from the date of decision of 
qualified audit report review committee / 
Financial Reporting Review Board  
Submission of revised pro -forma financial results by the 
listed entity concerned.  
Within two months from the date of letter of 
communication to the concerned entity.  
’

[Page 205]
205 
 
SCHEDULE IX- AMENDMENTS TO OTHER REGULATIONS  
[See regulation 100] 
 
1. Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009. 
 
(i) For regulation 7 the following shall be substituted, namely:-  
 "Security Deposit.  
7. (1) The issuer shall deposit, before the opening of subscription list, and keep 
deposited with the stock exchange(s), an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. 
of the amount of securities offered for subscription to the public.  
(2)The amount specified in  sub-regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner 
specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).  
(3)The amount specified in sub-regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the 
manner specified by the Board."  
 
 
(ii) In regulation 98, after clause (f), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely,- 
"(g) the issuing company shall ensure that the underlying equity shares against 
which IDRs are issued have been or will be listed in its home country before 
listing of IDRs in stock exchange(s).  
 
 (h) the issuing company shall ensure that the underlying shares of IDRs shall 
rank pari-passu with the existing shares of the same class."  
 
 
(iii) In regulation 101, for sub-regulation (1) the following shall be substituted, namely:-  
"(1) The issuing company shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, at least one of 
whom shall be a lead merchant banker and shall also appoint other intermediaries, in 
consultation with the lead merchant banker and shall enter into an agreement with the 
merchant banker on the lines of format of agreement as specified in Schedule II."  
 
 
(iv) After regulation 101 and before regulation 102, the following regulation shall be inserted, 
namely:- 
"Agreements with other intermediaries and others. 
101A. (1) The issuing company shall appoint a registrar and transfer agent which has 
connectivity with all the depositories.  
 
(2)The issuing company shall enter into an agreement with overseas custodian bank and 
domestic depository.  
 
(3) The lead merchant banker, after independently assessing the capability of other 
intermediaries and others to carry out their obligations, shall advise the issuing company 
on their appointment."

[Page 206]
206 
 
 
(v) For regulation 102 the following shall be substituted, namely:- 
“Display of bid data and issue of allotment letter.  
 102. (1) The stock exchange(s) offering online bidding system for the book building  
process shall display on their website, the data pertaining to book built IDR issue, in 
the format specified in Part B(2) of Schedule XI, from the date of opening of the bids 
till at least three days after closure of bids.  
 (2) The issuing company shall ensure that letter of allotment for the IDRs are issued 
simultaneously to all allottees and that in the event of it being impossible to issue 
letters of regret at the same time, a notice to that effect be issued in the media so that 
it appears on the morning after the letters of allotment have been dispatched.”  
 
(vi) for regulation 106J the following shall be substituted, namely,-  
 
 Period of subscription and issue of allotment letter. 
106J. (1) A rights issue shall be open for subscription in India for a period as applicable 
under the laws of its home country but in no case less than ten days. 
(2) The issuing company shall ensure th at it sends the allotment letter of rights to IDR 
Holders at the time they are sent to shareholders of the issuing company as per the 
requirement of its home country or other jurisdictions where its securities are listed. 
  
(vii) in regulation 106M, the words, number and symbol "regulation 7," shall be omitted. 
 
(viii) Chapter XI shall be renumbered as Chapter XII. 
 
(ix) Regulations 107, 108, 109, 110 and 111 shall be renumbered as 111, 112, 113, 114 and 
115 respectively and any reference thereto in any reg ulation framed or any circular or 
guideline issued by the Board shall be read accordingly. 
 
(x) After Chapter X and before Chapter XII, the following Chapter shall be inserted, namely:- 
 
"CHAPTER XI 
LISTING OF SECURITIES ON STOCK EXCHANGES 
 
In-principle approval of recognized stock exchange(s). 
107. (1) The issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall obtain in -
principle approval from recognised stock exchange as follows: 
(a) in case of an initial public offer or an issue of Indian Depository Receipts 
(hereinafter referred to as ‘IDRs’) , from all the recognised stock exchange(s) 
on which the issuer or the issuing company, proposes to get its specified 
securities or IDRs, as the case may be, listed; and 
(b) in case of other issues, before issuance of further securities, as follows:  
(i) where the securities are listed only on recognised stock exchange(s) 
having nationwide trading terminals, from all such stock exchange(s); 
(ii) where the securities are not listed on any recognised stock exchange 
having nationwide trading terminals, from all the stock exchange(s) on 
which the securities of the issuer are proposed to be listed; 
(iii) where the specified are listed on recognised stock exchange(s) having 
nationwide trading terminals as well as on the recogn ised stock

[Page 207]
207 
 
exchange(s) not having nationwide trading terminals, from all recognised 
stock exchange(s) having nationwide trading terminals. 
 
 
Application for Listing. 
108. (1) The issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall complete  the 
pre-listing formalities within the time lines specified by the Board from time to time. 
 
(2) The issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall, make an application 
for listing, within twenty days from the date of allotment, to one or more recognized 
stock exchange(s) along with the documents specified by stock exchange(s) from time 
to time. 
 
(3) In case of delay in making application for listing beyond twenty days from the date 
of allotment, the issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall pay p enal 
interest to allottees for each day of delay at the rate of atleast ten per cent. per annum 
from the expiry of thirty days from date of allotment till the listing of such securities 
to the allottees.  
 
(4) In the event of non-receipt of listing permission from the stock exchange(s) by the 
issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, or withdrawal of Observation Letter 
issued by the Board, wherever applicable, the securities shall not be eligible for listing 
and the issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall be liable to refund the 
subscription monies, if any, to the respective allottees immediately alongwith interest 
at the rate of ten per cent. per annum from the date of allotment.  
 
Listing Agreement. 
109. (1) Every issuer or the issuing company desirous of listing its securities  on a 
recognised stock exchange shall execute a listing agreement with such stock exchange.  
(2) Every issuer or the issuing company which has previously entered into 
agreement(s) with a recognised stock exchange to list its securities shall execute a fresh 
listing agreement with such stock exchange within six months of the date of 
notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.  
Obligation of stock exchange(s). 
110. The stock exchange(s) shall grant in-principle approval/list the securities or reject 
the application for in-principle approval /listing by the issuer or issuing company, as 
the case maybe, within thirty days from the later of the following dates:  
(a) the date of receipt of application for in-principle approval/listing from issuer 
or the issuing company, as the case may be,; 
(b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the issuer or the issuing 
company, as the case may be, in cases where the stock exchange(s) has sought 
any clarification from them." 
 
 
 
 
(xi) In Schedule VIII, in part E in clause 5, in item XVI, after sub-item B and before sub-item 
C, the following sub-item shall be inserted, namely:-

[Page 208]
208 
 
"(BA) Dealing with Fractional Entitlement:  Manner of dealing with fractional 
entitlement viz. payment of the equivalent of the value, if any, of the fractional 
rights in cash etc."  
 
(xii) In Schedule XIX, in part A, in item 13, after sub-item(e), the following sub-item shall be 
inserted, namely:- 
  "(f) Different classes of shares based on different criteria, if any."  
 
(xiii) In Schedule XIX, in part A, in item 14, before sub -item (a), the following general 
instructions shall be inserted, namely:- 
 
 General Instructions:  
(1) The format of disclosure of financial results may be as per the disclosure 
requirements of the issuing company in the home country where the Issuing 
Company is listed.  
 
(2) The issuing company shall intimate to the investors in the offer document the 
type of disclosures that it will follow i.e. whether as per Indian GAAP, IFRS or 
US GAAP and any change in such format shall be informed to the IDR Holders 
by way of notices to the stock exchange.  
 
 (xiv) In Schedule XIX, in Part B, in item 2, after sub -item (d), the following sub -item shall 
be inserted, namely:- 
"(e) Different classes of shares based on different criteria, if any." 
(xv) In Schedule XX in the reference title the number “110” shall be substituted, with the 
number “114”. 
 
2. Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt 
Securities) Regulations, 2008. 
 
(i) After regulation 12 and before regulation 13, the following regulation shal l be inserted, 
namely:- 
 
"Allotment of securities and payment of interest.  
12A. (1) The Issuer shall ensure that that in case of listing of debt securities issued to 
public, allotment of securities offered to public shall be made within thirty days of the  
closure of the public issue.  
(2) Where the debt securities are not allotted and/or application moneys are not refunded 
within the stipulated period in sub-regulation (1), the issuer shall undertake to pay interest 
at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum. 
(3) Credit to demat accounts of the allottees shall be made within two working days from 
the date of allotment.” 
 
(ii) After regulation 19 and before regulation 20, the following regulations shall be inserted, 
namely:- 
 
 "Listing Agreement. 
19A. (1) Every issuer desirous of listing its debt securities on a recognised stock 
exchange shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.

[Page 209]
209 
 
(2) Every issuer which has previously entered into agreements with a recognised stock 
exchange to list its debt securities shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such stock 
exchange within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.  
Security Deposit.  
19B. (1) The issuer shall deposit, before the opening of subscription list, and keep 
deposited with the stock exchange(s) an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. 
of the amount of securities offered for subscription to the public.  
(2)The amount stipu lated in sub -regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner 
specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).  
(3)The amount stipulated in sub -regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the 
manner specified by the Board."  
 
(iii) For regulation 23, the following shall be substituted, namely:- 
 “Continuous Listing Conditions. 
23. All the issuers making public issues of debt securities or seeking listing of debt 
securities issued on private placement basis shall comply with the conditions of listing 
specified in the respective listing agreement for debt securities.” 
 
3. Amendment t o Securities and Exchange Board of India(Issue and Listing of Non -
Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares) Regulations, 2013. 
 
(i) After regulation 16 and before regulation 17, the following regulations shall be inserted, 
namely:- 
 
"Listing Agreement. 
16A. (1) Every issuer desirous of listing its non-convertible redeemable preference shares, 
or perpetual non -cumulative preference shares or innovative perpetual debt instruments 
on a recognised stock exchange, shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.  
 
(2) Every issuer which has previously entered into agreements with a recognised stock 
exchange to list non -convertible redeemable preference shares, or perpetual non -
cumulative preference shares or innovative perpetual debt instruments shall execute  a 
fresh listing agreement with such stock exchange within six months of the date of 
notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.  
 
Security Deposit.  
16B. (1) The issuer shall deposit, before the opening of subscription list, and keep deposited 
with the stock exchange(s) an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of the amount 
of securities offered for subscription to the public.  
(2)The amount stipulated in sub -regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner specified 
by Board and/or stock exchange(s).  
(3)The amount stipulated in sub -regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the 
manner specified by the Board.”  
 
(ii) In regulation 20, sub-regulations (2) and (3) shall be omitted.

[Page 210]
210 
 
(iii) In Schedule I, in para. III, in sub -para (ii), under the heading “Delay in Dispatch of 
Allotment Letters or Refund Orders” after the word and sign "closure." and before the words 
"The issuer further agrees", the following shall be inserted, namely:- 
"Issuer agrees that credit to demat accounts of the allottees shall be made within two 
working days from the date of allotment."  
 
 4. Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Public Offer and Listing of 
Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008. 
(i) In regulation 31, after sub -regulation (8), the following sub -regulation shall be inserted, 
namely:- 
"(9) Credit to de mat accounts of the allottees shall be made by the issuer within two  
working days from the date of allotment.” 
 
(ii) After regulation 35 and before regulation 36, the following regulation shall be inserted, 
namely:- 
 "Listing Agreement. 
35A. (1) Every special purpose distinct entity desirous of listing securitised debt 
instruments on a recognised stock exchange, shall execute an agreement with such stock 
exchange.  
 
(2) Every special purpose distinct entity which has previously entered into a greements 
with a recognised stock exchange to list securitised debt instruments shall execute a fresh 
listing agreement with such stock exchange within six months of the date of notification 
of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations an d Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.  
  
 Security Deposit.  
35B. (1) The issuer shall deposit, before the opening of subscription list, and keep 
deposited with the stock exchange(s) an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of 
the amount of securities offered for subscription to the public.  
(2)The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner specified 
by Board and/or stock exchange(s)(s).  
(3)The amount stipulated in sub -regulation (1) shall be refundable or for feitable in the 
manner specified by the Board."  
 
(iii) In regulation 36, sub-regulation (3) shall be substituted with the following, namely:- 
"(3) In case of a private placement of securitised debt instruments, the special purpose 
distinct entity shall file listing particulars with the recognised stock exchange, along with 
the application made under sub -regulation (1) of regulation 35, containing such 
information as may be necessary for any investor in the secondary market to make an 
informed investment decision in respect of its securitised debt instruments and the special 
purpose distinct entity shall promptly disseminate such information, as prescribed, in such 
manner as the recognised stock exchange(s) may determine from time to time ". 
 
(iv) For regulation 37, the following shall be substituted, namely:- 
“Continuous listing conditions.  
37. The special purpose distinct entity or trustee thereof shall submit such information, 
including financial information relating to the schemes, to the stock exc hanges and 
investors and comply with such other continuing obligations as may be stipu lated in the 
listing agreement.

[Page 211]
211 
 
 5. Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 
1996. 
After regulation 31, the following regulation shall be inserted, namely:- 
 “In-principle approval from recognised stock exchange(s). 
31A. The listed entity, which intends to list units of its  scheme on the recognised stock 
exchange(s), shall obtain ‘in-principle’ approval from recognised stock exchange(s) in the 
manner as specified by the recognised stock exchange(s) from time to time.  
 
Listing Agreement. 
31B. (1) Every mutual fund desirous of listing units of its schemes on a recognised stock 
exchange shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.  
 
(2) Every mutual fund which has previously entered into agreements with a recognised 
stock exchange to list units of its schemes shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such 
stock exchange within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015."

[Page 212]
212 
 
SCHEDULE X- LIST OF SEBI CIRCULARS WHICH STAND RESCINDED  
[See Regulation 103] 
 
S.No Number Dated Subject  
1.  SE/2376 April 3, 
1992 
Amendment to Clause 41 of Listing 
Agreement 
2.   SE/2936  April 6, 
1992 
1% Listing Deposit 
3.  SMD/SED/N/JJ/4984/94 
 
September 
23, 1994 
Submission of B/S & details of 
utilisation of funds, etc.- Cl32 and 43 
of LA 
4.  SMD/SED/CIR/94/6669 
 
October 31, 
1994 
Forfeiture of 1% Listing Deposit 
5.  SMD-I(N)/JJ/2331/95 
 
June 26, 
1995 
Submission of Cash Flow Statement. 
6.  SMD-I(N)/JJ/2621/95 
 
July 11, 
1995 
Effective Year of Submission of 
Cash Flow Statement 
7.  SMD/RCG/JJ/1819/96 
 
May 15, 
1996 
Allotment within 30 days - 
amendment to LA 
8.  03/SMD/96 May 17, 
1996 
Amendment to Clause 32 of the 
Listing Agreement. 
9.  RRTI CIRCULAR NO.2 (97-98) June 4, 
1997 
Payment of dividend/Interest 
rounded off to the nearest rupee 
10.  SMD/POLICY/CIR-22/97 September 
22, 1997 
Amendment to the Listing 
Agreement Clause 40A and 40B 
amendment 
11.  SMD/POLICY/CIR- 06/98 February 
12, 1998 
Amendment in the Listing 
Agreement Transfer of shares - R 
Chandrasekaran committee 
12.  SMD/Policy/CIR-12/98 April 07, 
1998 
Amendment to Listing Agreement 
Clause 36 and 41 - Bhave Committee

[Page 213]
213 
 
13.  SMD/POLICY/CIR-13/98 April 16, 
1998 
Amendment to Listing Agreement 
price sensitive information 
14.  SMD/POLICY/CIR-26/97 September 
17, 1998 
Quarterly results - Mutual Fund 
providing quarterly results will not be 
applicable to a Mutual Fund 
15.  SMD/POLICY CIR-04/99 March 8, 
1999 
Listing Agreement – Amendment 
Clause 32 and Clause 41 - status on 
the Y2K preparedness level 
16.  SMDRP/CIR-07/99 April 9, 
1999 
Trading and settlement of trades in 
dematerialised securities notice 
period about book -closure / record 
date - 42 to 30 days 
17.  SMDRP/POLICY/CIR- 8 /99 April 26, 
1999 
Listing Agreement – Amendment 
Clause 32  and Clause 41 related to 
disclosure of turnover and income 
from new business subsequent to 
change in name - 
software/information technology 
business. 
18.  SMD/POLICY/CIR-12/99 May 18, 
1999 
Listing Agreement – Amendment 
Compliance Officer shall be the 
Company Secretary - Malegam 
Commitee 
19.  SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-14/98 May 19, 
1999 
Listing Agreement – Amendment 
Submission of complete Balance 
Sheet - Clause 32 
20.  SMD/POLICY/CIR-18/99 July 01, 
1999 
Listing Agreement – Amendment 
company shall publish/submit the 
audited r esults within two months 
from the end of the last quarter of the 
financial year 
21.  SMD/POLICY/CIR-24/99 July 14, 
1999 
Listing Agreement – Amendment 
provide correct and adequate 
information to Credit Rating 
Agencies 
22.  SMD-II/POLICY/CIR - 08 /2000 February 
04, 2000 
Amendments to the Listing 
Agreement

[Page 214]
214 
 
23.  SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-10/2000 
 
February 
21, 2000 
 
24.  SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-13/2000  
 
March 09, 
2000 
 
25.  SMD-II/Policy/Cir- 14/2000 April 06, 
2000 
Amendments to the Listing 
Agreement 
26.  SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-15/2000  
 
April 10, 
2000 
Reduction in the no delivery period at 
exchanges 
27.  SMDRP/POLICY/Cir-21/2000  May 10, 
2000 
Clause 43 of the Listing Agreement - 
Statement on utilisation of funds 
28.  PMIMD/8755/2000 
 
May 31, 
2000 
Reference of cases for relaxation of 
Rule 19(2)(b) of Securities Contract 
(Regulation) Act, 1957 
29.  SMD/POLICY/CIR-26/2000 July 04, 
2000 
Amendment to the Listing 
Agreement 
30.  SMDRP/Policy/Cir-30 /00 July 25, 
2000 
Amendment to the Listing 
Agreement  
31.  SMDRP/POLICY/CIR- 35/2000 August 04, 
2000 
 
32.  SMDRP/POLICY/ CIR-42/2000  September 
12, 2000 
Listing Agreement – Amendments to 
Clause 49  
33.  SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-55/00 December 
06, 2000 
 
34.  SMDRP/POLICY/ CIR- 03/01 
 
January 22, 
2001 
Enforcement of Corporate 
Governance 
35.  SMDRP/POLICY/ CIR-7/01  February 
01, 2001 
Distribution of Share Holding  
36.  SMDRP/Policy/Cir-15 /2001 March 08, 
2001 
Listing of further issue of capital  
37.  SMDRP/POLICY/ CIR- 28/01 May 02, 
2001 
Non-promoter holding on a 
continuous basis and minimum 
number of shareholders

[Page 215]
215 
 
38.  SMDRP/Policy/Cir- 29 /01 May 22, 
2001 
Practice of granting conditional 
listing permission  
39.  SMDRP/Policy/Cir-44 /01 August 31 , 
2001 
Amendment to the Listing 
Agreement  
40.  SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-46/2001 September 
27, 2001 
Delay in transfer of shares by 
companies 
41.  SMDRP/Policy/Cir- 47 /01 October 04, 
2001 
Amendment the Listing Agreement 
42.  DCC/FITTCIR-3//2001 October 15, 
2001 
facility of ECS for distributing 
dividends or other cash benefits 
43.  SMDRP/Policy/Cir- 48 /2001 October 19, 
2001 
Segment Reporting in Quarterly 
Financial Results under Clause 41 of 
the Listing Agreement 
44.  SMDRP/POLICY/ CIR- 53 /01 Dec 31, 
2001 
Amendments to Clause 49 of the 
Listing Agreement  
45.  SMD/POLICY/ CIR- 1 /02 January 02, 
2002 
Sub: Amendments to the Listing 
Agreement 
46.  SMD/Policy/Cir-10/2002 May 07, 
2002 
Amendment to the Listing 
Agreement  
47.  SMD/Policy/Cir-11 /02 May 10, 
2002 
Amendment to the Listing 
Agreement 
48.  SMD/POLICY/Cir-13/02 
 
June 20, 
2002 
Electronic Data Information Filing 
And Retrieval (EDIFAR) 
49.  SMD/Policy/Cir-16 /2002 June 26, 
2002 
 
50.  SMD/POLICY/Cir-17/02 
 
July 3, 2002 Electronic Data Information Filing 
and Retrieval system (EDIFAR). 
51.  SMD/Policy/Cir-23 /02 
 
September 
17, 2002 
Electronic Data Information Filing 
And Retrieval (EDIFAR) 
52.  SMD/Policy/Cir- 27 /02 
 
December 
20, 2002 
Electronic Data Information Filing 
And Retrieval (EDIFAR)

[Page 216]
216 
 
53.  SMD/Policy/Cir-2 /2003 
 
January 10, 
2003 
 
Amendment to Listing Agreement – 
Clause 32 and Clause 41. 
54.  SMD/Policy/Listing/Cir-5/2003  February 
12, 2003 
Non-compliance of provisions of 
listing agreement. 
55.  SEBI/SMD/Policy/List/Cir -
17/2003  
 
May 08, 
2003 
Amendment to the listing agreement 
regarding disclosure pertaining to 
schemes of 
arrangement/merger/amalgamation 
/reconstruction filed before the Court 
56.  SEBI/SMD/SE/Cir-23/2003/18/06  June 02, 
2003 
Electronic Data Information Filing 
And Retrieval (EDIFAR) 
57.  SEBI/SMD/SE/25/2003/ 19 /06 June 19, 
2003 
Listing Fees 
58.  SEBI/MRD/SE/31/2003/26/08 
 
August 26, 
2003 
 
Corporate Governance in listed 
Companies – Clause 49 of the Listing 
Agreement  
59.  MRD/Policy/Cir – 35 /2003/29/09 
 
September 
29, 2003 
Listing of further issue of capital 
60.  SEBI/MRD/SE/AT/36/2003/30/09 
 
September 
30, 2003 
Secondary Market for Corporate 
Debt Securities. 
61.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/SE/43/2003 November 
20, 2003 
Reduction in Notice Period for fixing 
the Book closure/Record date 
62.  SEBI/MRD/SE/AT/46/2003 
 
December 
22, 2003 
Secondary Market for Corporate 
Debt Securities - Clarifications 
63.  SEBI/MRD/Policy/AT/Cir-
20/2004  
April 30, 
2004 
Frequent change of names by listed 
companies 
64.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/CG/1/2004/12/10 
 
October 29, 
2004 
Corporate Governance in listed 
Companies – Clause 49 of the Listing 
Agreement 
65.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/CIR- 39 
/2004/11/01 
November 
01, 2004 
Model Listing Agreement for listing 
of Debt Securities

[Page 217]
217 
 
 
66.  SEBI/DNPD/CIR-28/2004/12/07 
 
December 
08, 2004 
Amendments to Clause 16 of the 
Equity Listing Agreement – 
Requirement of Notice Period 
67.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/CG/1/2005/29/3 
 
March 29, 
2005 
Corporate Governance – Clause 49 of 
the Listing Agreement 
68.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/CG/1/2006/13/1 
 
January 13, 
2006 
 
Corporate Governance in listed 
Companies – Clause 49 of the Listing 
Agreement 
69.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/IDR/1/2006/3/4 
 
April 03, 
2006 
Listing Agreement for Indian 
Depository Receipts (IDRs) 
70.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/2006/13/4 
 
April 13, 
2006  
 
Amendments to Clause 40A and 
Clause 35 of Equity Listing 
Agreement 
71.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/1/2007/20/03 
 
March 20, 
2007 
 
Amendments to the Listing 
Agreement for Debentures 
72.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/2/2007/ 26/4 
 
April 26, 
2007 
 
Amendments to Clause 32 of Equity 
Listing Agreement 
73.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/3/2007/10/07 
 
July 10, 
2007 
 
Amendments to Clause 41 of Equity 
Listing Agreement 
74.  MIRSD/DPS III//Cir- 11/07  August 06, 
2007 
Dissemination of Information on 
Debentures 
75.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/4/2007/27/12 
 
December 
27, 2007 
Amendments to Equity Listing 
Agreement 
76.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/CG/1/2008/08/04 
 
April 08, 
2008 
Corporate Governance in listed 
Companies – Clause 49 of the Listing 
Agreement

[Page 218]
218 
 
77.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/ 5/2008/4/09 September 
04, 2008 
Amendment in Equity Listing 
Agreement  
78.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/CG/2/2008/23/10  
 
October 23, 
2008 
Corporate Governance in listed 
Companies – Clause 49 of the Listing 
Agreement  
79.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/2009/3/2 February 
03, 2009 
Amendments to Equity Listing 
Agreement  
80.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/1/2009/24/04 April 24, 
2009 
Amendments to the Equity Listing 
Agreement  
81.  SEBI/IMD/BOND/1/2009/11/05 
 
May 11, 
2009 
Simplified Listing Agreement for 
Debt Securities 
82.  MRD/DoP/ Cir-05/2009 
 
May 20, 
2009 
PAN requirement for transfer of 
shares in physical form 
83.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/IDR/1/2009/16/06 
 
June 16, 
2009 
Model Listing Agreement for listing 
of Indian Depository Receipts (IDRs) 
84.  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-07/2009 
 
July 21, 
2009 
Abolition of no -delivery period  for 
all types of corporate actions. 
85.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/2/2009/21/7 
 
July 21, 
2009 
Amendments to the Equity Listing 
Agreement- Clause 28A 
86.  SEBI/CFD/DIL/LA/3/2009/03/09 September 
03, 2009  
Amendments to Equity Listing 
Agreement 
87.  SEBI/IMD/DOF-1/BOND/Cir-
5/2009 
 
November 
26, 2009 
Simplified Debt Listing Agreement 
for Debt Securities - Amendments 
88.  SEBI/IMD/DOF-1/BOND/Cir-
1/2010 
 
January 07, 
2010 
Simplified Debt Listing Agreement 
for Debt Securities - Amendments 
89.  SEBI/MRD/DoP/SE/RTA/Cir-
03/2010 
January 07, 
2010 
 
PAN requirement for transmission of 
shares in physical form

[Page 219]
219 
 
90.  CIR/CFD/DIL/1/2010  April 05, 
2010 
Listing Conditions -Amendments to 
the Equity Listing Agreement 
91.  CIR/CFD/DCR/3/2010  April 16, 
2010 
Discontinuation of Electronic Data 
Information Filing and Retrieval 
(EDIFAR) System. 
92.  Cir/ CFD /DCR/5 /2010  May 07, 
2010 
Making Annual Reports of Listed 
Companies easily accessible Making 
Annual Reports of Listed Companies 
easily accessible 
93.   CIR/CFD/DIL/6/2010  May 17, 
2010 
Conditions of listing for issuers 
seeking listing on SME Exchange - 
Model SME Equity Listing 
Agreement 
94.  SEBI/Cir/ISD/ 2 /2010 
 
October 26, 
2010 
Clarification on Trading Rules and 
shareholding in dematerialized mode 
95.  CIR/CFD/DIL/10/2010  December 
16, 2010 
Amendment to Equity Listing 
Agreement  
96.  Cir. /IMD/DF/5/2011  March 16, 
2011 
Listing Agreement for Securitized 
Debt Instruments 
97.  CIR/CFD/DIL/3/2011  June 03, 
2011 
Redemption of Indian Depository 
Receipts (IDRs) into Underlying 
Equity Shares  
98.  CIR/MRD/DP/ 07 /2011  June 16, 
2011 
Change of Name by Listed 
Companies 
99.  Cir/ISD/ 3/2011 
 
June 17, 
2011 
Shareholding of promoter / promoter 
group to be in dematerialized mode 
100.  SEBI/Cir/ISD/ 05 /2011  
 
September 
30, 2011 
 Clarification on 100% promoter 
holding in demat form 
101.   CIR/CFD/DIL/7/2011  October 05, 
2011 
Amendments to the Equity, IDR and 
SME Equity Listing Agreements  
102.  CIR/CFD/DIL/1/2012  February 
08, 2012 
Amendment to Clause 40A and 43 of 
Equity Listing Agreement

[Page 220]
220 
 
103.  SEBI/Cir/ISD/ 1 /2012 
 
March 30, 
2012 
Exemptions from 100% promoter(s) 
holding in demat form 
104.  CIR/CFD/DIL/4/2012  April 16, 
2012 
Amendments to the Equity Listing 
Agreement - Formats for Disclosure 
of Financial 
Results 
105.  CIR/MIRSD/8 /2012  
 
 
July 05 , 
2012 
Reduction of Time -line for Transfer 
of Equity Shares and Prescription of 
Time-line for Transfer of Debt 
Securities 
106.  CIR/CFD/DIL/6/2012  July 13, 
2012 
 Amendments to the Equity Listing 
Agreement - Platform for E -Voting 
by Shareholders of Listed Entities 
107.  CIR/CFD/DIL/7/2012  August 13, 
2012 
Manner of Dealing with Audit 
Reports filed by Listed Companies 
108.  CIR/OIAE/1/2012  August 13, 
2012 
Redressal of investor grievances 
against listed companies in SE BI 
Complaints Redress System 
(SCORES). 
109.  CIR/CFD/DIL/8/2012  August 13, 
2012 
 Business Responsibility Reports 
110.  CIR/CFD/DIL/10/2012  August 28, 
2012 
Redemption of Indian Depository 
Receipts (IDRs) into Underlying 
Equity Shares 
111.   CIR/CFD/DIL/11/2012  
  
August 29, 
2012 
Manner of achieving minimum 
public shareholding requirements in 
terms of SCRR, 1957 
112.  CIR/CFD/DIL/2/2013  January 03, 
2013 
 Clarification on Clause 36 of the 
Equity Listing Agreement 
113.  CIR/CFD/DIL/3/2013  January 17, 
2013 
Amendment to ESOP 
114.  CIR/CFD/DIL/5/2013  February 
04, 2013 
Scheme of Arrangement under the 
Companies Act, 1956 – Revised 
requirements for the Stock 
Exchanges and Listed Companies

[Page 221]
221 
 
115.   CIR/CFD/DIL/6/2013  March 01, 
2013 
Guidelines for Enabling Partial Two-
Way Fungibility of Indian 
Depository Receipts (IDRs) 
116.  CIR/MRD/DP/10/2013 March 21, 
2013 
 Sub: Usage of electronic payment 
modes for making cash payments to 
the investors 
117.  CIR/CFD/DIL/7/2013  May 13, 
2013 
ESOP - Clarification 
118.  CIR/CFD/DIL/8/2013  May 21, 
2013 
Scheme of Arrangement under the 
Companies Act, 1956 – Revised 
requirements for the Stock 
Exchanges and Listed Companies - 
Clarification 
119.  CIR/CFD/DIL/9/2013  June 05, 
2013 
Manner of Dealing with Audit 
Reports filed by Listed Companies" - 
Clarification 
120.  CIR/MRD/ DSA / 31 /2013  
 
September 
30, 2013 
Standard Operating Procedure 
121.  CIR/CFD/POLICYCELL/13/2013 November 
18, 2013 
Compliance with the provisions of 
Equity Listing Agreement by listed 
companies – Monitoring by Stock 
Exchanges 
122.  CIR/CFD/POLICYCELL/14/2013  November 
29, 2013 
ESOP – Clarification- Extension of 
time line for alignment 
123.  CIR/CFD/DIL/1/2014 March 25, 
2014 
Format for Auditors’ Certificate 
required under Clause 24(i) of the 
Equity Listing Agreement 
124.  CIR/CFD/POLICY CELL/2/2014  April 17, 
2014 
 Corporate Governance in listed 
entities - Amendments to Clauses 
35B and 49 of the Equity Listing 
Agreement 
125.  CIR/CFD/POLICYCELL/3/2014  June 27, 
2014 
ESOP – Clarification- Extension of 
time line for alignment 
126.   CIR/CFD/DIL/4/2014  August 01, 
2014 
Monitoring of Compliance by Stock 
Exchanges

[Page 222]
222 
 
127.  CIR/CFD/POLICY CELL/7/2014  September 
15, 2014 
Corporate Governance in listed 
entities - Amendments to Clause 49 
of the Equity Listing Agreement 
128.  CIR/CFD/CMD/1/2015 April 08, 
2015 
Fine structure for non-compliance 
with the requirement of Clause 
49(II)(A)(1) of Listing Agreement

[Page 223]
223 
 
790[Schedule XI – Fee in respect of draft scheme of arrangement 
[see regulations 37, 59A, 94 and 94A] 
1. An entity with listed specified securities, or listed specified securities and 
listed non -convertible debt securities or non -convertible redeemable 
preference shares, shall, along with the draft scheme of arrangement, remit a 
fee at the rate of 0.1% of the paid -up share capital of  the listed/ transferee/ 
resulting company, whichever is higher, post the sanction of the scheme  by 
the National Company Law Tribunal: 
Provided that the total amount of fees payable shall not exceed five lakh rupees. 
2. An entity with only listed non -convertible debt securities or non -convertible 
redeemable preference shares, shall, along with the draft scheme of 
arrangement, remit a fee at the rate of 0.1% of the amount of outstanding debt 
of the listed/ transferee/ resulting company, whichever  is higher, post the 
sanction of the scheme by the National Company Law Tribunal:  
Provided that the total amount of fees payable shall not exceed five lakh 
rupees.] 
 791[3. The fees shall be paid by way of direct credit into the bank account of the 
Board through NEFT/ RTGS/ IMPS or online payment using the SEB I 
Payment Gateway or any other mode as may be specified by the Board from 
time to time.] 
  
                                                           
790 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Sixth Amendment) (Regulations), 2022. Prior to substitution, it read as: 
“ [Schedule XI – Fee in respect of draft scheme of arrangement 
[see regulations 37 and 94] 
1. The listed entity shall, along with the draft scheme of arrangement, remit fee at the rate of 0.1% of the paid-
up share capital of the listed/transferee/resulting company, whichever is higher, post sanction of the scheme, 
subject to a cap of [five lakh rupees].  
2. The fee specified in clause 1 shall be paid by way of direct credit to the bank account of the Board through 
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or by means of a demand draft in favour of 
“Securities and Exchange Board of India” payable at Mumbai.] 
791 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 01.04.2023. Prior to its substitution, clause (3) read as follows:  
*[“(3)The fees shall be paid by way of dire ct credit to the bank account of the Board through NEFT/ RTGS/ 
IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or by means of a demand draft in favour of “Securities and Exchange 
Board of India” payable at Mumbai.”]

[Page 224]
224 
 
792[Schedule XII: RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
[See Regulation 23(1)] 
A transaction with a related party shall be considered material, if the transaction(s) to be 
entered into individually or taken together with previous transactions during a financial year 
exceeds the following: 
Consolidated Turnover of Listed Entity 
Threshold 
Threshold 
(I) Up to ₹20,000 Crore 10% of the annual consolidated turnover of 
the listed entity 
(II) More than ₹20,000 Crore to upto 
₹40,000 Crore 
₹2,000 Crore + 5% of the annual 
consolidated turnover of the listed entity 
above ₹20,000 Crore 
(III) More than ₹40,000 Crore ₹3,000 Crore + 2.5% of the annual 
consolidated turnover of the listed entity 
above ₹40,000 Crore  or ₹5000 Crores, 
whichever is lower. 
 
Explanation: For the purpose of computing the thresholds stated above, the annual 
consolidated turnover of the listed entity shall be determined based on the last audited 
financial statements of the listed entity. 
 
Illustration 1. For listed entities in (II) 
If the annual consolidated turnover of a 
listed entity is ₹30,000 Crore 
₹2,000 Crore + 5% of the remaining ₹10,000 
Crore = ₹2,500 Crore. 
Illustration 2. For listed entities in (III) 
If the annual consolidated turnover of a 
listed entity is ₹50,000 Crore 
₹3,000 Crore + 2.5% of the remaining 
₹10,000 Crore = ₹3,250 Crore. 
Illustration 3. For listed entities in (III) 
If the annual consolidated turnover of a 
listed entity is ₹1,50,000 Crore 
₹3,000 Crore + 2.5% of the remaining 
₹1,10,000 Crore = ₹5,750 Crore. 
 
However, threshold for material related 
party transaction would be ₹5,000 Crore as 
it is lower than ₹5,750 Crore. 
] 
U.K. SINHA 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
 
                                                           
792 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 19.12.2025.

[Page 225]
225 
 
Note: 
 
1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 were published  in the Gazette of India on        
September 2, 2015 vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2015-16/013.  
 
2. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, were amended on: 
 
a) December 22, 2015 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 
vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2015-16/27. 
 
b) May 25, 2016 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 vide notification 
no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/ 2016-17/001. 
 
c) July 8, 2016 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Second    Amendment) Regulations, 2016    vide 
notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2016-17/008. 
 
d) January 4, 2017 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and   Disclosure   Requirements) (Third   Amendment) Regulations, 2016   vide 
notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2016-17/025. 
 
e) February 15, 2017 by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Re gulations, 2017 
vide notification no. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/029.  
 
f) March 6, 2017 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees 
and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017 vide Notification No. 
LAD-NRO/GN/2016- 17/037 read with Mar ch 29, 2017 by Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017 vide notification no. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/38. 
 
g) May 9, 2018 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 vide notification                 
no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/10. 
 
h) May 30, 2018 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulatio ns, 
2018 vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/13. 
 
i) June 1, 2018 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2018 vide 
notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/21.

[Page 226]
226 
 
j) June 8, 2018 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2018 vide 
notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/24. 
 
k) September 6, 2018 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/30. 
 
l) November 16, 2018 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth A mendment) Regulations, 
2018 vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/47. 
 
m) March 29, 2019 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 
vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2019/07.  
 
n) May 7, 2019 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Discl osure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, vide 
notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2019/12.  
 
o) June 27, 2019 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2019, vide notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2019/22.  
 
p) July 29, 2019 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019, vide 
notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2019/28.  
 
q) December 26, 2019 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2019, vide notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2019/45. 
 
r) January 10, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (L isting 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, 
vide notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2020/02. 
 
s) April 17, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020   vide   no.  SE BI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2020/10. 
 
t) August 5, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, vide notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2020/25.

[Page 227]
227 
 
u) October 8, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, vide notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2020/33. 
 
v) January 8, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Discl osure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, 
vide notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2021/02. 
 
w) May 5, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021, vide 
notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2021/22. 
 
x) August 3, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide notification no.  SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2021/30. 
 
y) August 3, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, vide notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2021/35. 
 
z) August 13, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, vide notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2021/42. 
 
aa) September 7, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, vide notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2021/47. 
 
bb) November 9, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021, vide notification no. SEBI/ LAD-NRO/GN/2021/55. 
 
cc) January 24, 2022 by the S ecurities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regula tions, 2022, 
vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/66. 
 
dd) March 22, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Dis closure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/76. 
 
ee) April 11, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure   Requirements) (Third   Amendment) Regulati ons, 
2022, vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/79.

[Page 228]
228 
 
ff) April 25, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure   Requirements) (Fourth   Amendment) Regulations, 
2022   vide   notification   no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/80. 
 
gg) July 25, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure   Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations , 2022   vide   
notification   no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/88. 
 
hh) November 14, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Boa rd of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure   Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations , 
2022   vide   notification   no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/103. 
 
ii) December 05, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure   Requirements) (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 
2022   vide   notification   no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/109. 
 
jj) January 17, 2023 by the Securities an d Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure   Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations , 2023   
vide   notification   no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/117. 
 
kk) February 7, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of 
Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regul ations, 2023 vide notification 
no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/121. 
 
ll) June 14, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regul ations, 
2023 vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/131. 
 
mm) July 4, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute 
Resolution Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide notific ation                            
no. SEBI/LAD–NRO/GN/2023/137. 
 
nn) August 23, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regul ations, 
2023 vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/149. 
 
oo) September 19, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regul ations, 
2023 vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/151. 
 
pp) October 09, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amendment) Regul ations, 
2023 vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/155.

[Page 229]
229 
 
qq) October 20, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Require ments) (Sixth Amendment) Regul ations, 
2023 vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/158. 
 
rr) December 21, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 
2023 vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/161. 
 
ss) May 17, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regul ations, 2024 
vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/177. 
 
tt) July 10, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regul ations, 2024 vide 
notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/189. 
 
uu) December 12, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regula tions, 
2024, vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/218.  
 
vv) March 28, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, 
vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/239.  
 
ww) May 1, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regula tions, 2025, vide 
notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/244. 
 
xx) September 8, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regula tions, 
2025, vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/261. 
 
yy) October 27, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listi ng 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regula tions, 
2025, vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/270. 
 
zz) November 19, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Fifth Amen dment) Regula tions, 
2025, vide notification no.  SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/273. 
 
aaa) December 16, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment Regula tions, 
2025, vide notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/289. 
 
bbb) January 22, 2026 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 ,

[Page 230]
230 
 
vide notification n o. SEBI/NRO-GN/2026/295 read with March 12, 2026 
Corrigendum to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 , vide 
notification no. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2026/297. 
 
***
