[Page 1]
Page 1 of 48 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  
(FOREIGN VENTURE CAPITAL INVESTORS) REGULATIONS, 2000 
 
CONTENTS  
 
CHAPTER I: PRELIMINARY  
1.  Short title and commencement  
2.  Definitions  
 
CHAPTER II: REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN VENTURE CAPITAL 
INVESTORS   
3.  Application for grant of certificate as a foreign venture capital investor   
4. Eligibility Criteria 
5.  Furnishing of information and personal representation 
6.  Application to conform to the requirements  
7.  Certificate of registration   
8.  Conditions of certificate  
9.  Renewal of registration and surrender of certificate  
10. [Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024] 
 
CHAPTER III: INVESTMENT CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS  
11. Investment Criteria for a Foreign Venture Capital Investor  
 
CHAPTER IV: GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES  
12. Maintenance of books and records  
13. Power to call for information  
14. Appointment of custodian  
15. Appointment of designated bank 
15A. Obligations and responsibilities of foreign venture capital investor 
15B. Obligations and responsibilities of designated depository participants

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 48 
 
CHAPTER V: INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATIONS  
16. Board's right to inspect or investigate  
17. Obligation of Foreign Venture Capital Investor on investigation or 
inspection by Board  
18. Submission of the Report  
19. Board's right to issue any direction to Foreign Venture Capital Investor 
 
CHAPTER VI: PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT   
20. Board's right to suspend or cancel certificate of registration  
21. Suspension of certificate  
22. Cancellation of certificate  
23. Manner of making order of cancellation or suspension  
[24.Omitted by the Securities (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry 
Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 
25. Omitted by the Securities (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry 
Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 
26. Omitted by the Securities (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry 
Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 
27. Omitted by the Securities (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry 
Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002] 
28. Action against intermediary  
29. Appeal to Securities Appellate Tribunal 
 
CHAPTER VII: POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE 
REGULATIONS 
 
30. Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases 
 
FIRST SCHEDULE: FORMS  
PART A:  APPLICATION FORM  FOR GRANT OF CERTIFICATE OF 
REGISTRATION AS FOREIGN VENTURE CAPITAL INVESTOR

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 48 
PART B:  CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION  
 
SECOND SCHEDULE: PAYMENT OF FEES APPLICABLE TO FOREIGN 
VENTURE CAPITAL INVESTOR  
 
THIRD SCHEDULE

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 48 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  
(FOREIGN VENTURE CAPITAL INVESTORS) REGULATIONS, 2000 
 
(Amended upto July 10, 2026) 
  
S.O. 832 (E) . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1) of Section 
30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby makes th e following regulations 
namely:-  
   
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement.  
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Foreign Venture Capital Investor) Regulations, 2000.  
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette.  
 
Definitions. 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,─ 
(a) "Act" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 
of 1992);  
1[(aa) “Bilateral Memorandum of Understanding with the Board” means a 
bilateral Memorandum of Understanding between the Board and any 
authority outside India that provides for information sharing arrangement 
as specified under clause (ib) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act; 
(ab) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established 
under section 3 of the Act;] 
                                                 
1 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025.

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 48 
(b) 2["certificate" means a certificate of registration granted to a foreign 
venture capital investor by the designated dep ository participant on 
behalf of the Board under these regulations];  
3[(ba) “control” includes the right to appoint majority of the directors or to 
control the management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or 
persons acting individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including 
by virtue of shareholding or management rights or shareholders 
agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner;] 
(c) 4["designated bank" means a scheduled bank in India, which has been 
authorised by the Reserve Bank of India to act as a banker to the foreign 
venture capital investor;]  
5[(ca) “designated depository participant” means a person who has been 
approved by the Board under Chapter III of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019;] 
(d) "domestic custodian" means a person registered under the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Custodian 6[***]) Regulations, 1996; 
7[(e) 8[* * *]  
                                                 
2 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
"certificate" means a certificate of registration granted by the Board under regulation 7.  
3 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture C apital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025. 
4 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it re ad as 
under: 
"designated bank" means any bank in India which has been permitted by the Reserve Bank of 
India to act as banker to the Foreign Venture Capital Investor. 
5 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investo rs) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025. 
6 The words “of Securities”  omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025. 
7  Clauses (e) and (ee) substituted for clause (e) by the SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2001, w.e.f. 07-6-2001.  
8  Omitted by the SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, 
w.e.f. 27 -9-2002. Ea rlier clause (e) as amended by the SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital 
Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001, w.e.f. 7-6-2001, read as under:  
‘(e) “enquiry or investigating officer" means an enquiry or investigating officer appointed by 
the Board, under regulation 16.’

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 48 
(ee) "Inspection or Investigation Officer" means an officer appointed by the 
Board, under regulation 16;]  
(f)  "equity linked instruments" includes instruments convertible into equity 
share or share warrants, preference s hares, debentures compulsorily; 
9[or optionally] convertible into equity;]  
10[(g) "foreign venture capit al investor" means an investor incorporated or 
established outside India registered under these regulations, proposes to 
make investment in accordance with these regulations and shall be 
deemed to be an intermediary in terms of the provisions of the Act;]  
(h) 11[“form" means an application form for obtaining registration as foreign 
venture capital investor as notified by the Government of India or as 
specified by the Board];  
12[(ha) "International Financial Services Centre" or "IFSC" shall have the 
same meaning as assigned to it in clause (q) of section 2 of the Special 
Economic Zones Act, 2005 (Act No. 28 of 2005);] 
(i) "investible funds" means the fund committed for investments in India net 
of expenditure for administration and management of the fund;  
(j) 13[***]  
(k)  "Schedule" means a schedule annexed to these regulations;  
14[(ka) “Single Window Automatic and Generalised Access for Trusted 
Foreign Investor” or “SWAGAT -FI” shall have the same meaning as 
                                                 
9  Inserted by the SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, 
w.e.f. 5-4-2004. 
10 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f . January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
‘(g) "foreign venture capital investor" means an investor incorporated and established 
outside India, is registered under these Regulations and proposes to make investment in 
accordance with these Regulations.’ 
11 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
"form" means any of the forms set out in the First Schedule. 
12 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025. 
13 Omitted by the SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2014. Prior to its omission, clause (j) read as under: 
“(j) "negative list" means a list of items as specified in Third Schedule;”

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 48 
assigned to it under clause (r) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) 
Regulations, 2019;] 
15[(l)   “Venture Capital Fund” means a fund registered with the Board under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) 
Regulations, 1996 or under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 in the sub -category of 
“Venture Capital Fund’ under Category I Alternative Investment Fund. 
16[(m) “Venture Capital undertaking” means a domestic company: 
i) Which is not listed on a recognised stock exchange in India at the 
time of making investment; and 
ii) Which is engaged in the business for providing services, production 
or manufacture of article or things and does not include following  
activities or sectors:  
(1)non-banking financial companies, other than Core 
Investment Companies (CICs) in the infrastructure sector, 
Asset Finance Companies (AFCs), and Infrastructure 
                                                                                                                                                 
14 Inserted by the Secu rities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. June 1, 2026. 
15 Substituted by the SEBI(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 w.e.f. May 21, 2013. 
Prior to substitution it read as under: 
"(l)    Venture Capital Fund" means a Fund established in the form of a Trust, a company 
including a body corporate and registered under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture 
Capital Fund) Regulations, 1996, which  
(i) has a dedicated pool of capital;  
(ii) raised in the manner specified under the Regulations; and  
(iii) invests in accordance with the Regulations; 
(m) "venture capital undertaking" means a domestic company:─  
(i)  whose shares are not listed in a recognised stock exchange in India;  
(ii)  which is engaged in the business of providing services, production or manufacture 
of articles or things, but does not include such activities or sectors which are 
specified in the negative list by the Board, with approval of Central Governme nt, by 
notification in the Official Gazette in this behalf." 
16 Substituted by the SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2014. Prior to substitution, Clause (m) as amended by the SEBI (Alternative 
Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 w.e.f. May 21, 2013 read as under: 
(m) “Venture Capital undertaking” means a venture capital undertaking as defined under 
clause(aa) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012.

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 48 
Finance Companies (IFCs) registered with Reserve Bank of 
India;  
(2) gold financing;  
(3)activities not permitted under industrial policy of 
Government of India;  
(4) any other activity which may be specified by the Board in 
consultation with Government of India from time to time.] ] 
 
17[(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations, but 
defined in the Act or the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999), 
the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 
1956 (42 of 1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 19 96), or the rules and 
regulations made thereunder shall have the same meaning as are respectively 
assigned to them in those Acts or rules or regulations or any statutory 
modification or re-enactment thereto.]  
 
CHAPTER II 
REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN VENTURE CAPITAL INVESTORS 
18[Application for grant of certificate as a foreign venture capital investor. 
3. (1) No person shall buy, sell or otherwise deal in securities as a foreign 
venture capital investor unless it has obtained a certificate granted by a 
designated depository participant on behalf of the Board. 
                                                 
17 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
Words and expressions us ed and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act or 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 [or 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulation, 2012] shall 
have the same meaning as are respectively assigned to them in the Act or the said regulations.  
18 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
Application for grant of certificate.  
3. For the purposes of seeking registration under these regulations, the applicant shall make an 
application to the Board in Form A along with the application fee as specified in  Part A of the 
Second Schedule to be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof.

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 48 
(2) An application for the grant of certificate as a foreign venture capital investor 
shall be made to a designated depository participant in the Form and in the 
manner specified by the Government or the Board from time to time: 
Provided that the foreign venture capital investors who have been granted a 
certificate of registration before the notification of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Reg ulations, 
2024 shall engage a designated depository participant in the manner and subject 
to such conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
19[ Provided further that the provisions of sub -regulation (2) shall not be 
applicable to a SWAGAT-FI.] 
(3) The application shall be supported 20[] by any documents in the manner 
specified by the Board from time to time.]  
 
Eligibility Criteria.  
21[4. A designated depository participant shall consider an application for grant of 
certificate of registration as a foreign venture capital investor if the applicant 
satisfies all of the following conditions, namely: - 
                                                 
19 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. June 1, 2026. 
20  The words “by the fee specified in the Second Schedule and”  omitted by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 w.e.f. 06-01-2027.  
21 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
(1) For the purpose of the grant of a certificate to an applicant as a Foreign Venture Capital 
Investor, the Board shall consider the following conditions for eligibility, namely:-  
(a) the applicants track record, professional competence, financial soundness, experience, 
general reputation of fairness and integrity.  
(b) Whether the applicant has been granted necessary approval by the Rese rve Bank of India 
for making investments in India;  [* * *]  
(c) whether the applicant is an investment company, investment trust, investment partnership, 
pension fund, mutual fund, endowment fund, university fund, charitable institution or any other 
entity incorporated outside India; or  
(d) whether the applicant is an asset management company, investment manager or 
investment management company or any other investment vehicle incorporated outside India;  
[* * *]  
(e) whether the applicant is authorised to  invest in venture capital fund or carry on activity as a  
[foreign venture capital investors];  [or Alternative Investment Fund]  [* * *]  
(f) whether the applicant is regulated by an appropriate foreign regulatory authority or is an 
income tax payer; or submits a certificate from its banker of its or its promoter’s track record 
where the applicant is neither a regulated entity nor an income tax payer.

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 48 
(a) the applicant is an entity incorporated or established outside I ndia or in 
International Financial Services Centre; 
(b) The applicant is a resident of the country whose securities market 
regulator is a signatory to the International Organization of Securities 
Commission’s Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (Appendix A 
Signatories) or a signatory to a bilateral Memorandum of Understanding 
with the Board: 
Provided that an applicant being Government or Government related 
investor shall be considered as eligible for registration, if such applicant 
is a resident in the cou ntry as may be approved by the Government of 
India; 
(c) The applicant being a bank is a resident of a country whose central 
bank is a member of Bank for International Settlements: 
Provided that a central bank applicant need not be a member of Bank 
for International Settlements: 
Provided further that the condition specified under clause (c) of 
Regulation 4 shall not apply in case the applicant is regulated by the 
banking sector regulator in its home jurisdiction even if the central bank 
of that country is not a member of Bank for International Settlements; 
(d) The applicant or its beneficial owners identified in accordance with Rule 
9 of the Prevention of Money -laundering (Maintenance of Records) 
Rules, 2005, shall not be the person(s) mentioned in the Sanctions List  
notified from time to time by the United Nations Security Council and is 
not a resident in the country identified in the public statement of 
Financial Action Task Force as– 
(i) a jurisdiction having a strategic Anti -Money Laundering or 
Combating the Financing  of Terrorism deficiencies to which 
counter measures apply; or  
                                                                                                                                                 
(g) the applicant has not been refused a certificate by the Board.  
(h) whether the applicant is a fit and proper person.

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 48 
(ii) a jurisdiction that has not made sufficient progress in addressing 
the deficiencies or has not committed to an action plan 
developed with the Financial Action Task Force to address the 
deficiencies; 
(e) the applicant is a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in 
Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; and 
(f) any other criteria specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
22[***]  
 
23[Furnishing of information and personal representation. 
5. (1) The Board or the designated depository participant may require the 
applicant to furnish such further information or clarification as may be considered 
necessary for the grant of the certificate of registration as a foreign venture 
capital investor.  
(2) The applicant or its authorized representative shall, if so required by the 
Board or the designated depository participant, appear before them for personal 
representation in connection with the grant of a certificate.]  
 
24[Application to conform to the requirements. 
                                                 
22 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025. Prior to omission, it read as under: 
[Criteria for fit and proper person]. 
4A. For the purposes of determining whether an applicant or the foreign venture capital investor 
is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations , 2008. 
23 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
Furnishing of information, clarification.  
5. The Board may require the applicant to furnish such further information as it may consider 
necessary. 
24 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
Consideration of application.  
6. An application which is not complete in all respects shall be rejected by the Board:

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 48 
6. (1) An application for grant of certificate of registration to act as a foreign 
venture capital investor, which is not complete in all respects or is false or 
misleading in any material particular or does not satisfy the requirements 
specified in these regulations shall be deemed to be deficient and liable to be 
rejected by the designated depository participant:  
Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given a 
reasonable opportunity of being heard and to remove the deficiency, within the 
time as specified by the designated depository participant.  
(2) The decision to reject the a pplication shall be communicated by the 
designated depository participant to the applicant in writing indicating the 
grounds for rejection of the application.  
(3) The applicant, who is aggrieved by the decision of the designated depository 
participant under sub-regulation (1) may, within a period of thirty days from the 
date of receipt of communication under sub -regulation (2), apply to the Board for 
reconsideration of the decision of the designated depository participant:  
Provided that such application f or reconsideration shall not be considered by the 
Board where the rejection was on account of technical reasons such as non -
submission of complete information, documents, including non -payment of 
specified fee.  
(4) The Board shall, after considering the s ubmissions made in the application 
seeking reconsideration made under sub -regulation (3) and after giving a 
reasonable opportunity of being heard, communicate its decision in writing to the 
applicant.] 
 
25[Certificate of registration. 
                                                                                                                                                 
Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given an opportunity 
to remove, within thirty days of the date of receipt of communication, the objections indicated by 
the Board.  
Provided further that the Board may, on being s atisfied that it is necessary to extend the period 
specified above may extend such period not beyond ninety days. 
25 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
Procedure for grant of certificate.

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 48 
7. (1) If the designated depository participant is satisfied that an applicant is 
eligible and fulfils the requirements as specified in these regulations, the 
designated depository participant shall, on behalf of the Board, grant the 
certificate of registrati on to an applicant, bearing registration number generated 
by the Board, specified in Part B of the First Schedule.  
(2) The designated depository participant shall endeavour to dispose of the 
application for grant of certificate of registration as soon as possible but not later 
than thirty days after receipt of application by the designated depository 
participant, or after the information called for under regulation 5 has been 
furnished; whichever is later.  
(3) Upon grant of certificate of registration to the applicant, the designated 
depository participant shall remit the fee, as specified in the Second Schedule, 
received from the applicant to the Board.  
(4) If an applicant seeking registration as a foreign venture capital investor has 
any grievance with respect to its application or if the designated depository 
participant has any question in respect of interpretation of any provision of these 
regulations, it may approach the Board for appropriate instructions.]  
 
26[Conditions of certificate. 
                                                                                                                                                 
7. (1) If the Board is satisfied that the applicant is eligible for the grant of certificate, it shall send 
an intimation to the applicant.  
(2) On receipt of intimation, the applicant shall pay to the Board, the registration fee specified in 
Part A of the Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof.  
(3) The Board shall on receipt of the registration fee grant a certificate of registration in Form B. 
26 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
Conditions of certificate.  
8. The certificate granted to the foreign venture capital  [investor] under regulation 7 shall be 
inter alia, subject to the following conditions, namely:-  
(a) it shall abide by the provisions of the Act, and these regulations;  
(b) it shall appoint a domestic custodian for purpose of custody of securities;  
(c) it shall enter into arrangement with a designated bank for the purpose of operating a special 
non-resident rupee or foreign currency account.  
(d) it shall forthwith inform the Board in writing if any information or particulars previously 
submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material particular or if there 
is any change in the information already submitted.

[Page 14]
Page 14 of 48 
8. (1) The certificate granted to the foreign venture capital investor under 
regulation 7 shall be subject to the following conditions, namely:-  
(a) it shall abide by the provisions of the Act, and these regulations;  
(b) it shall appoint a domestic custodian for purpose of custody of 
securities;  
(c) it shall enter into arrangement with a designated bank for the purpose of 
operating a special non-resident rupee or foreign currency account; 
(2) The foreign venture capital investor shal l provide necessary information 
sought by the designated depository participant to review the eligibility of the 
entity to hold the certificate of registration as a foreign venture capital investor. 
(3) If the foreign venture capital investor no longer sat isfies the eligibility criteria 
under Regulation 4, the foreign venture capital investor shall inform the Board 
and designated depository participant in writing as soon as possible but not later 
than seven working days. 
(4) The designated depository partic ipant shall ascertain whether the foreign 
venture capital investor satisfies the eligibility criteria in terms of provisions under 
Regulation 4, subject to conditions and in the manner specified by the Board 
from time to time. 
(5) The foreign venture capital investor which does not satisfy the criteria under 
Regulation 4, shall be dealt with in the manner specified by the Board from time 
to time.] 
 
27[Renewal of registration and surrender of certificate. 
9. (1) Subject to the compliance with the provisi ons of the Act, these regulations 
and the circulars issued thereunder, the registration granted by the designated 
depository participant on behalf of the Board under these regulations shall be 
                                                 
27 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (For eign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
Procedure where certificate is not granted.  
9. (1) On considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion that 
a certificate should not be granted, it may reject the application after giving the applicant a 
reasonable opportunity of being heard.  
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant .

[Page 15]
Page 15 of 48 
permanent unless suspended or cancelled by the Board or surrend ered by the 
foreign venture capital investor. 
(2) To keep the registration in force, the foreign venture capital investor shall pay 
renewal fee as specified in the Second Schedule for every block of five years 
from the beginning of the sixth year from the date of grant of certificate of 
registration and the fee shall be paid before expiry of the block for which fee has 
been paid, in the manner specified by the Board from time to time.  
28[Provided that in case of a SWAGAT -FI, the renewal fees shall be paid for 
every block of ten years, from the beginning of the eleventh year from the date of 
grant of certificate of registration as specified in the Second Schedule.] 
(3) If the foreign venture capital investor fails to pay the renewal fee along with 
the late fee as specified in the Second Schedule to keep the registration in force 
within the specified due date and does not have any investment in India, such 
foreign venture capital investor shall be deemed to have applied for surrender of 
its registration and th e designated depository participant of such foreign venture 
capital investor shall process the surrender after obtaining the approval from the 
Board.  
(4) If the foreign venture capital investor fails to pay the renewal fee for 
continuance of registration within the specified due date and has investment in 
India, such foreign venture capital investor shall pay the renewal fee as specified 
in Second Schedule, along with a late fee as specified Second Schedule for each 
day of delay in payment of renewal fee, subject to maximum of one and half 
times of the renewal fee: 
Provided that until the renewal fee is paid, the foreign venture capital investor 
shall not make any new investment or sell its existing investments: 
Provided further that until the renewal fee i s paid, the foreign venture capital 
investors who have been granted a certificate of registration before the 
notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture 
                                                 
28 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. June 1, 2026.

[Page 16]
Page 16 of 48 
Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 shall not make any new  
investment: 
Provided further that if the renewal fee, along with late fee, is not paid within thirty 
days from the date of expiry of the block for which fee has been paid, the 
certificate of registration of the foreign venture capital investor shall be li able to 
be suspended or cancelled. 
(5) The suspension and cancellation of certificate of registration of a foreign 
venture capital investor, shall be dealt with in the manner as provided in Chapter 
V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermedi aries) Regulations, 
2008.  
(6) Any foreign venture capital investor desirous of surrendering the certificate of 
registration may request for such surrender to the designated depository 
participant who shall accept the surrender of the certificate of registration after 
obtaining approval from the Board.  
(7) While accepting the surrender of registration, the designated depository 
participant shall impose such conditions as may be specified by the Board.]  
 
29[***] 
 
CHAPTER III 
INVESTMENT CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS 
Investment Criteria for a Foreign Venture Capital Investor. 
11. All investments to be made by a foreign venture capital investors shall be 
subject to the following conditions:-  
(a) it shall disclose to the Board its investment strategy.  
(b) 30[* * *] it can invest its total funds committed in one venture capital fund 
31[or alternative investment fund]  32[* * *].  
                                                 
29 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025. Prior to omission, it read as under: 
Effect of refusal to grant certificate.  
10. Any applicant whose application has been rejected under regulation 9 shall not carry on any 
activity as a Foreign Venture Capital Investor.

[Page 17]
Page 17 of 48 
(c) it shall make investments 33[* * *] as enumerated below:  
(i) at least 34[66.67%] of the investible funds shall be invested in unlisted 
equity shares or equity linked instruments 35[of 36[venture capital 
undertaking or investee  company as defined in clause (o) of sub -
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulation, 2012];  
(ii) not more than 37[33.33%] of the investible funds may be invested by 
way of: 
(a) subscription to initial public offer of a 38[venture capital 
undertaking or investee company as defined in clause (o) of sub -
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of Securities and  Exchange Board of 
India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulation, 2012 ] whose 
shares are proposed to be listed 39[* * *];  
(b) debt or debt instrument of a 40[venture capital undertaking or 
investee company as defined in clause (o) of sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 2 of Securities and  Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulation, 2012 ] in which the 
41[foreign venture capital investor] has already made an  
investment by way of equity; 
                                                                                                                                                 
30 Word “while” omitted by the SEBI (Foreign Venture capital Investors) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2004, w.e.f. 5-4-2004. 
31  Inserted by the SEBI(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 w.e.f. May 21, 2013. 
32 Words “it shall however not invest more than 25% of the funds committed for investments to 
India in one Venture Capital Undertaking” omitted by the SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital 
Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, w.e.f. 5-4-2004. 
33 Words “in the Venture Capital Undertaking” omitted, ibid. 
34 Substituted for “75%”, ibid. 
35 Inserted, ibid. 
36 Substituted by the SEBI(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 w.e.f. May 21, 2013  
for the words "Venture Capital Undertaking". 
37 Substituted for “25%”, ibid. 
38 Substituted by the SEBI(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 w.e.f. May 2 1, 2013  
for the words "Venture Capital Undertaking". 
39 Words “subject to lock-in period of one year” omitted, ibid. 
40 Substituted by the SEBI(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 w.e.f. May 21, 2013  
for the words "Venture Capital Undertaking". 
41 Substituted for “Venture capital fund” by the SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2001, w.e.f. 7-6-2001.

[Page 18]
Page 18 of 48 
42[(c) preferential allotment of equity shares of a listed company subject 
to lock in period of one year. 
Explanation 1 .─For the purposes  of these regulations, a 
financially weak company” means a company, which has at the 
end of the previous financial year accumulated losses, which has 
resulted in erosion of more than 50% but less than 100% of its 
networth as at the beginning of the previous financial year;  
(d) it shall disclose the duration of life cycle of the fund; 
(e) special purpose vehicles which are created for the purpose of 
facilitating or promoting investment in accordance with these 
Regulations. 
43[Provided that the investment limits of 66.67% specified under sub -
clause (i) and 33.33% specified under sub-clause (ii) of clause (c) shall not 
be applicable to SWAGAT-FIs.] 
Explanation.─The investment conditions and restrictions 
stipulated in clause (c) of regulation 11 shall be achieved by the 
Foreign Venture Capital Investor by the end of its life cycle.] 
  
CHAPTER IV 
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
Maintenance of books and records.  
12. (1) Every Foreign Venture Capital Investor shall maintain for a period of eight 
years, books of accounts, records and documents which shall give a true and fair 
picture of the state of affairs of the Foreign Venture Capital Investor.  
(2) Every Foreign Venture Capital Investor shall intimate to the Board, in writing, 
the place where the books, records and documents referred to in sub -regulation 
(1) are being maintained.  
 
                                                 
42 Inserted by the SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, 
w.e.f. 5-4-2004.  
43 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. June 1, 2026.

[Page 19]
Page 19 of 48 
Power to call for information.  
13. (1) The Board may at any time call for any information from a Foreign 
Venture Capital Investor with respect to any matter relating to its activity as a 
Foreign Venture Capital Investor.  
(2) Where any information is called for under sub -regulation (1) it shall be 
furnished within the time specified by the Board.  
 
44[Appointment of custodian. 
14. (1) A foreign venture capital investor or a global custodian acting on behalf of 
the foreign ve nture capital investor shall enter into an agreement with  a 
designated depository participant and a custodian, before making any investment 
under these regulations.  
(2) In addition to the obligation of a custodian under any other regulations, the 
custodian shall be responsible for – 
(a) monitoring of investment of foreign venture capital investors in India;  
(b) furnishing of periodic reports to the Board; 
(c) furnishing such information as may be called for by the Board; 
(d) ensuring that a foreign venture capital investor does not make any new 
investment or sell its existing investment until renewal fee is paid in 
terms of sub-regulation (4) of Regulation 9; 
(e) any other condition as may be specified by the Board from time to 
time.] 
 
Appointment of designated bank.  
                                                 
44 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
General Obligations and Responsibilities.  
14. (1) Foreign Venture Capital Investor or a global custodian acting on behalf of the foreign 
venture capital investor shall enter into an agreement with the domestic custodian to act as a 
custodian of securities for Foreign Venture Capital Investor.  
(2) Foreign Venture Capital Investor shall ensure that domestic custodian takes steps for, -  
(a) monitoring of investment of Foreign Venture Capital Investors in India  
(b) furnishing of periodic reports to the Board  
(c) furnishing such information as may be called for by the Board.

[Page 20]
Page 20 of 48 
15. Foreign Venture Capital Investor shall appoint a branch of a bank approved 
by Reserve Bank of India as designated bank for opening of foreign currency 
denominated accounts or special non-resident rupee account.  
 
45[Obligations and responsibilities of foreign venture capital investor. 
 15A. The foreign venture capital investor shall – 
(a) comply with the provisions of these regulations, as far as they may 
apply, circulars issued thereunder and any other terms and 
conditions specified by the Board from time to time;  
(b) in relation to its activities as foreign venture capital investor, at all 
times, subject itself to the extant Indian laws, rules, regulations, 
guidelines and circulars issued from time to time; 
(c) inform the Board and designated depository participant in writing, if 
any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board or  
designated depository participant are found to be false or misleading 
in any material respect or if there is any change in the information or 
particulars already submitted, in the manner and within the timelines 
as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(d) inform the Board and designated depository participant in writing, if 
there is any material change in the information including any direct or 
indirect change in its structure or ownership or control previously 
furnished by him to the Board or designated depository participant, in 
the manner and within the timelines as may be specified by the 
Board from time to time; 
(e) as soon as possible but not later than seven working days, inform the 
Board and the designated depository participant, in case of any 
penalty, pending litigation or proceedings, findings of inspections or 
investigations for which action may have been taken or is in the 
process of being taken by an overseas regulator against it, in the 
                                                 
45 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025.

[Page 21]
Page 21 of 48 
manner and within the timelines as may be specified b y the Board 
from time to time;  
(f) as and when required by the Board or any other Government agency 
in India, submit any information, record or documents in relation to its 
activities as a foreign venture capital investor; 
(g) obtain a Permanent Account Number fr om the Income Tax 
Department; 
(h) be a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in Schedule 
II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008;  
(i) undertake necessary KYC on its shareholders/investors in 
accordance with the rules applicable to it in the jurisdiction where it is 
organised; and 
(j) provide any additional information or documents including beneficiary 
ownership details of their clients as may be required by the 
designated depository participant or the Board or any other 
enforcement agency to ensure compliance with the Prevention of 
Money Laundering Act, 2002 (Act No. 15 of 2003) and the rules and 
regulations specified thereunder, the Financial Action Task Force 
standards and circulars issued from time to time by the Board. 
 
Obligations and responsibilities of designated depository participants.  
15B. (1) In addition to the obligation of designated depository participants under 
any other regulations, the designated depository participant engaged by an 
applicant seeking registration as foreign venture capital investor shall: 
(a) open a dematerialised account for the applicant only after ensuring 
compliance with all the requirements under Prevention of Money 
Laundering Act, 2002 (Act No. 15 of 2003) and rules and regu lations 
specified thereunder, Financial Action Task Force standards and 
circulars issued by the Board in this regard, from time to time and

[Page 22]
Page 22 of 48 
shall also ensure that foreign venture capital investors comply with all 
these requirements on an ongoing basis; 
(b) carry out necessary due diligence to ensure that no other depository 
account per depository is held by any of the concerned applicant as 
a foreign venture capital investor; 
(c) collect and remit fees to the Board, in the manner as specified in the 
Second Schedule; 
(d) in case of change in structure or constitution or direct or indirect 
change in common ownership or control reported by the foreign 
venture capital investor, re -assess the eligibility of such foreign 
venture capital investor. 
(2) The designated depository participant shall ensure that only registered foreign 
venture capital investors are allowed to invest in securities market.  
(3) The designated depository participant shall maintain segregation of activities 
such that there is no conflict of interest betw een the activity of grant of 
registration to a foreign venture capital investor in the capacity of a designated 
depository participant and its other activities. 
(4) The designated depository participant shall maintain the relevant true and fair 
records, books of accounts, and documents including the physical or electronic 
records relating to registration of foreign venture capital investors. 
(5) The designated depository participant shall intimate to the Board in writing the 
location where such books, records and documents shall be maintained. 
(6) Subject to the provisions of any other law for the time being in force, every 
designated depository participant shall preserve the books of accounts, physical 
or electronic records and documents specified in this regulation at all times. 
 
CHAPTER V 
INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATIONS 
Board's right to inspect or investigate.  
16. The Board may, suo -moto or upon receipt of information or complaint, cause 
an inspection or investigation to be made in respect of conduct and a ffairs of any

[Page 23]
Page 23 of 48 
foreign venture capital investor by an Officer whom the Board considers fit for 
any of the following reasons namely:-  
(a) to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being 
maintained by the foreign venture capital investor in the manner specified 
in these regulations.  
(b) to inspect or investigate into complaints received from investors, clients or 
any other person, on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the 
foreign venture capital investor;  
(c) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are 
being complied with by the foreign venture capital investor; and  
(d) to insp ect or investigate suo -moto into the affairs of a foreign venture 
capital investor in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of 
investors. 
 
 
 
Obligation of Foreign Venture Capital Investor on investigation or 
inspection by Board. 
17. (1) It shall be the duty of every Foreign Venture Capital Investor in respect of 
whom an inspection or investigation has been ordered under regulation 16 and 
any other person associated who is in possession of relevant information 
pertaining to conduct and aff airs of such Foreign Venture Capital Investor 
including asset management company or fund manager, to produce to the 
Inspecting or Investigating Officer such books, accounts and other documents in 
his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as 
the said Officer may require for the purposes of the inspection or investigation.  
(2) It shall be the duty of Foreign Venture Capital Investor and any other person 
associated who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and 
affairs of the Foreign Venture Capital Investor to give to the Inspecting or 
Investigating Officer all such assistance and shall extend all such co-operation as 
may be required in connection with the inspections or investigations and shall

[Page 24]
Page 24 of 48 
furnish such information sought by the Inspecting or Investigating Officer in 
connection with the inspections or investigations.  
(3) The Inspecting or Investigating Officer shall, for the purposes of inspection or 
investigation, have power to examine on oath an d record the statement of any 
person responsible for or connected with activities of Foreign Venture Capital 
Investor or any other person associated having relevant information pertaining to 
such Foreign Venture Capital Investor.  
(4) The Inspecting or Inv estigating Officer shall, for the purposes of inspection or 
investigation, have power to get authenticated copies of documents, books, 
accounts of Foreign Venture Capital Investor, from any person having control or 
custody of such documents, books or accounts.  
 
Submission of the Report.  
18. The Inspecting or Investigating Officer shall on completion of inspection or 
investigations, submit a report to the Board.  
 
Board's right to issue any direction to Foreign Venture Capital Investor.  
19. The Board may after consideration of the inspection or investigation report 
and after giving a reasonable opportunity of hearing to the Foreign Venture 
Capital Investor, require it to take such measure or issue such directions as it 
deems fit in the interest of capital market and investors, including directions in the 
nature of: -  
(a) requiring the person concerned to dispose of the securities or disinvest in 
a manner as may be specified in the directions;  
(b) requiring the person concerned not to further invest for a particular period;  
(c) prohibiting the person concerned from operating in the capital market in 
India for a specified period. 
  
CHAPTER VI 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT

[Page 25]
Page 25 of 48 
Board's right to suspend or cancel certificate of registration.  
20. Without prejudice to the appropriate directions or measures under regulation 
19, it may after consideration of the investigation report, initiate action for 
suspension or cancellation of the registration of such Foreign Venture Capital 
Investor:  
Provided that no such certificate of registration shall be suspended or 
cancelled unless the procedure specified in regulation 23 is complied with.  
 
Suspension of certificate.  
21. The Board may suspend the certificate where the Foreign Venture Capital 
Investor:  
(a) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations;  
(b) fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as a Foreign Venture 
Capital Investor as required by the Board;  
(c) furnishes to the Board information which is false or misleading in any 
material particular;  
(d) does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board;  
(e) does not co-operate in any enquiry or inspection conducted by the Board; 
 
Cancellation of certificate.  
22. The Board may cancel the certificate granted to a Foreign Venture Capital 
Investor: -  
(a) when the Foreign Venture Capital Investor is guilty of fraud or has been 
convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude;  
Explanation.─The expression "fraud" has the same meaning as is 
assigned to it in section 17 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. (9 of 1872);  
(b) the Foreign Venture Capital Investor has been guilty of repeated defaults 
of the nature mentioned in the regulation 21; or  
(c) Foreign Venture Capital Investor does not continue to meet the eligibility 
criteria laid down in these regulations;  
(d) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations.

[Page 26]
Page 26 of 48 
 
Manner of making order of cancellation or suspension.  
23. No order of penalty or cancellation of certificate shall be imposed on the 
Foreign Venture Capital Investor except after holding an enquiry in accordance 
with the procedure specified in 46[Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008].  
 
24 to 27. 47[* * *] 
                                                 
46 Substituted for the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by 
Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” by the SEBI (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 26 -5-2008. Earlier it was amended by the SEBI (Proc edure for 
Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27 -9-2002. 
47 Regulations 24 to 27 omitted by the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer 
and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27 -9-2002. Prior to its omission, it read as 
under: 
“24. Manner of holding enquiry before suspension or cancellation. ─(1) For the purpose of 
holding an enquiry under regulation 23, the Board may appoint one or more enquiry officers.  
(2) The enquiry officer shall iss ue to the Foreign Venture Capital Investors, at its registered 
office or its principal place of business or its agent or representative in India, a notice setting 
out the grounds on which action is proposed to be taken against it and calling upon it to sho w 
cause against such action within a period of fourteen days from the date of receipt of the notice.  
(3) The Foreign Venture Capital Investor may, within fourteen days from the date of receipt of 
such notice, furnish to the enquiry officer a written reply , together with copies of documentary or 
other evidence relied on by it or sought by the Board from the Foreign Venture Capital Investor.  
(4) The enquiry officer shall give a reasonable opportunity of hearing to the Foreign Venture 
Capital Investor to ena ble him to make submissions in support of its reply made under sub -
regulation (3).  
(5) Before the enquiry officer, the Foreign Venture Capital Investor may appear through any 
person duly authorised by the Foreign Venture Capital Investor:  
Provided that n o lawyer or advocate shall be permitted to represent the Foreign Venture 
Capital Investors at the enquiry:  
Provided further that where a lawyer or an advocate has been appointed by the Board as a 
presenting officer under sub -regulation (6), it shall be la wful for the Foreign Venture Capital 
Investor to present its case through a lawyer or advocate.  
(6) The enquiry officer may, if he considers it necessary, ask the Board to appoint a presenting 
officer to present its case.  
(7) The enquiry officer shall, a fter taking into account all relevant facts and submissions made 
by the Foreign Venture Capital Investor, submit a report to the Board and recommend the penal 
action, if any, to be taken against the Foreign Venture Capital Investor as also the grounds on 
which the proposed action is justified.  
25. Show-cause notice and order .─(1) On receipt of the report from the enquiry officer, 
the Board shall consider the same and may issue to the Foreign Venture Capital Investor a 
show-cause notice as to why the penal action as proposed by the enquiry officer or such 
appropriate action should not be taken against it.  
(2) The Foreign Venture Capital Investor shall, within fourteen days of the date of the receipt of 
the show-cause notice, send a reply to the Board.  
(3) The Board, after considering the reply, if any, of the Foreign Venture Capital Investor, shall, 
as soon as possible pass such order as it deems fit.

[Page 27]
Page 27 of 48 
Action against intermediary.  
28. The Board may initiate action for suspension or cancellation of registration of 
an intermediary holding a certificate of registration under section 12 of the Act 
who fails to exercise due diligence in the performance of its functions or fails to 
comply with its obligations under these regulations: 
Provided that no such certificate of registration shall be suspended or 
cancelled unless the procedure specified in the regulations applicable to such 
intermediary is complied with.  
 Appeal to 48[Securities Appellate Tribunal].  
29. Any person aggrieved by an order of the Board under these regulations may 
prefer an appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal in accordan ce with section 
15T of the Act.  
 
49[CHAPTER VII 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
30. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the 
operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may 
be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation 50[***] 
                                                                                                                                                 
26. Effect of suspension and cancellation of certificate .─(1) On and from the date of the 
suspension of th e certificate, the Foreign Venture Capital Investor shall cease to carry on any 
activity as a Foreign Venture Capital Investor during the period of suspension, and shall be 
subject to such directions of the Board with regard to any records, documents or se curities that 
may be in its custody or control, relating to its activities as Foreign Venture Capital Investor, as 
the Board may specify.  
(2) On and from the date of cancellation of the certificate, the Foreign Venture Capital Investor 
shall, with immedia te effect, cease to carry on any activity as a Foreign Venture Capital 
Investor, and shall be subject to such directions of the Board with regard to the transfer of 
records, documents or securities that may be in its custody or control, relating to its act ivities as 
Foreign Venture Capital Investor, as the Board may specify.  
27. Publication of order of suspension or cancellation .─The order of suspension or 
cancellation of certificate passed under regulation 25 may be published by the Board in two 
newspapers.” 
48 Substituted for “Securities and Exchange Board of India” by the SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital 
Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001, w.e.f. 7-6-2001. 
49 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17 -04-
2020. 
50 The words “in technological aspects” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021.

[Page 28]
Page 28 of 48 
relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in 
live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets. 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject 
to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be  specified by the Board 
including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" 
means a live testing environment where new products, processes, services, 
business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for 
a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, 
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51[FIRST SCHEDULE 
                                                 
51 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025 . Prior to its substitution, it read as 
under: 
FIRST SCHEDULE 
FORMS 
FORM A 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (FOREIGN VENTURE CAPITAL 
INVESTORS) REGULATIONS, 2000 
[See Regulation 3] 
APPLICATION FORM FOR GRANT OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION AS FOREIGN 
VENTURE CAPITAL INVESTOR WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF 
INDIA 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
Mittal Court `B' Wing, 1st Floor 
Nariman Point, Bombay - 400 021, INDIA 
 
1. Name, address, telephone no., telex no. and fax no. of the applicant. In case the applicant 
has a representative office in India, the particulars may also be given for that office.  
2. Please indicate whether the applicant belongs to any one or more of the fo llowing categories:  
Pension Fund, Mutual Fund, Investment Trust, Investment company, Investment trust, 
Investment partnership, Asset Management Company, Investment manager, Investment

[Page 29]
Page 29 of 48 
                                                                                                                                                 
Management Company, Endowment fund, University fund, Charitable institu tions or any other 
investment vehicle incorporated and established outside India  
3. (a) The date and place of incorporation of the applicant. (Details of statute under which 
incorporated).  
(b) Brief description of the principal activities of the applican t and the year of commencement of 
such activities.  
(c) Brief description of the group, if any, to which the applicant belongs. 
4. Whether any of the following documents are submitted?  
i. Copy of certificate of registration with home regulator; or  
ii. Copy of income tax return filed in the home country; or  
iii. Copy of bankers certificate fair track record of the applicant 
5. Please also state whether there has been any instance of violation or non -adherence to the 
securities laws, code of ethics/c onduct, code of business rules, for which the applicant, or its 
parent/ holding company or affiliate may have been subjected to economic, or criminal liability 
or suspended from carrying out its operations, or the registration has been revoked, temporarily  
or permanently. If no, submit an undertaking.  
6. Please indicate the names of the clients on whose behalf you propose to invest in India.  
7. Please indicate the manner in which you propose to conduct your investments in India i.e. 
whether through an establishment in India or through any other office outside India. Please give 
details, and also the name of the contact person/compliance officer.  
8. Name and address of the designated bank branch in India through whom investment is 
proposed to be made.  
9. a) Name, address, telephone no., telex no., and fax no. of the domestic custodian. Please 
also present the background information on the custodian, including volume of business 
handled, organisational infrastructure and the number of investment companies f or which the 
domestic custodian is acting, or has acted, as custodian.  
b) Particulars of the agreement entered into with the domestic custodian.  
We hereby agree and declare that the information supplied in the application, including the 
attachment sheets, is complete and true.  
And we further agree that we will immediately notify the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India of any change in the information provided in the application.  
We further agree that we shall comply with the provisions of the Act, and  regulations issued 
thereunder and all other relevant laws.  
We further agree that as a condition of grant of certificate of registration, we shall abide by such 
operational instructions/ directives as may be issued by Securities and Exchange Board of 
India under the provisions of the Act from time to time.  
51[10. Please furnish firm commitment letter(s) from your investors for contribution of an amount 
aggregating to at least US$ 1 million. 
11. Please furnish copies of your financial statements as well as those of your investors’ who 
have provided firm commitment letter(s), for the financial year preceding the one during which 
this application is being made. 
12. Please furnish name, address, contact number and the e-mail address of all your directors. 
13. P lease furnish name, address, contact number and the e -mail address of all your 
investor(s) who have provided firm commitment letter(s) required to be furnished under 
paragraph 10 of this Form.] 
 
For and on behalf of _______________________________________  
                                        (Name of the applicant)  
   
Authorised Signatory  ___________________  ___________________  
                                        (Name)                                     (Signature)  
 
Date:  
Place:

[Page 30]
Page 30 of 48 
PART A 
 
FORM A 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital 
Investors) Regulations, 2000 
[See regulation 3(2)] 
  
Application Form for Grant of Certificate of Registration as Foreign Venture 
Capital Investor (FVCI) 
 
1. Name of the applicant: 
(Full expanded name to be mentioned as appearing in proof of identity/ 
address documents, the name should be provided without any 
abbreviations)  
 
                                                                                                                                                 
Note:  
1. Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) reserves the right to call for any further 
information from the applicant regarding his application.  
2. Applications, superscribed "Application for Registration of Foreign Venture Capital Investors 
", should be submitted in duplicate, in sealed envelopes, at Securities and Exchange Board of 
India's office.  
Documents to be enclosed with the application:  
a. Documents to support registration or regulation by a Securities Commission and/or 
Self Regulatory Organisation, or any other appropriate regulatory/registering authority or  
b. Copy of income tax return filed in the home country; or  
c. Copy of bankers certificate for fair track record of the applicant  
 
FORM B 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(FOREIGN VENTURE CAPITAL INVESTORS) REGULATIONS, 2000 
[See Regulation 7(3)] 
 
Certificate of Registration as Foreign Venture 
Capital Investor 
 
I.   In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, (15 of 1992) read with the regulations made thereunder the 
Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to ------------------------------------------------------------
------------ as a Foreign Venture Capital Investor subject to the c onditions specified in the Act 
and in the regulations made thereunder.  
II.  The Registration Number of the foreign venture capital 51[investor] is IN/FVCI/ / 
 
Date:  
Place: MUMBAI  
                                By order  
                                                            Sd/-  
                                   For and on behalf of  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA.

[Page 31]
Page 31 of 48 
  
2. Have you ever been known by any other name? Yes/No 
Is yes, please give the other name 
 
 
 
3. Date of Incorporation/ Establishment/Formation (DD/MM/YYYY) 
 Particulars Date (DD/MM/YYYY) 
a)  Date of Incorporation / 
Establishment/Formation 
 
b)  Date of Commencement of Business  
 
4. Place and Country of Incorporation/ Establishment/ Formation: 
 Particulars Details 
a)  Place  
b)  Country  
c)  ISD Country Code  
 
5. Legal form of the applicant and the law under which it is 
incorporated, established or registered:   
   
 
6. Legal Entity Identifier & Tax Residency Certificate details: 
 Particulars  Details 
a)  Legal Entity Identifier (LEI), if applicable  
b)  Tax Residency Certificate (TRC) No.  
c)  Country of Tax Residency  
+ Add (Add rows at b) and c) in case of Multiple Tax Residency details) 
 
7. Address & Communication Details 
7.1. Registered Address of the Applicant:  
Flat/ Room/ Door/ Block No.   
Name of Premises/Building/ 
village

[Page 32]
Page 32 of 48 
Road/ Street/Lane/ Post 
Office 
  
Area/ Locality/ Taluka/ Sub-
Division 
  
  
Town/ City/ District    
  
State/Union Territory   
Pin Code/ Zip Code  
Country  
 
7.2. Office Address of the Applicant  
(If applicant has an office in India also, please provide separate entry for 
the same):  
Flat/ Room/ Door/ Block No.   
Name of Premises/Building/ village   
Road/ Street/Lane/ Post Office   
Area/ Locality/ Taluka/ Sub-Division   
  
Town/ City/ District    
  
State/Union Territory   
Pin Code/ Zip Code  
Country  
 
7.3. Address of Communication/Correspondence – 
(Please tick as applicable)  
 Registered address  Office address 
(foreign) 
 Office address (India) 
 
7.4. Contact Details: 
S.No Particulars Registered address Office address 
Country 
Code 
Area/ 
STD 
Code 
Number Country 
Code 
Area/ 
STD 
Code 
Number 
1.  Telephone

[Page 33]
Page 33 of 48 
Number 
2.  Fax Number       
3.  Mobile 
Number 
 
4.  Email ID  
5.  Website  
 
8. Information pertaining to Investment Manager: 
Name of entity   
Type of entity    
Country  
Telephone no 
/Mobile no 
  Fax No.    
E-mail id    
 
9. Information pertaining to the Compliance officer:  
Name    
Job Title    
Telephone no    Fax No.    
E-mail id    
  
10. Information regarding Ultimate Beneficial Owner (End Natural 
Person): 
10.1. Individual Custodian/ Designated Depository Participant (DDPs) may 
seek additional documentation/ownership details at a lower threshold 
than prescribed, based on their independent evaluation and risk 
classification of the respective FVCI applicants on the basis of multiple 
parameters such as home jurisdiction, type of entity, nature of business 
etc. 
We declare that there is no natural person/individual who are 
ultimately holding > ___% beneficial ownership directly/indirectly

[Page 34]
Page 34 of 48 
into the entity as well as on controlling basis for companies, Trust & 
General Partner / Limited Partnership structure. We therefore 
provide details of the senior managing official of the FVCI as under. 
The list of beneficial owners as per materiality threshold for 
controlling ownership interest and / or on control basis is provided 
as under: 
The list of beneficial owners as per materiality threshold for 
controlling ownership interest and / or on control basis is provided 
as under: 
S. 
No 
Name & 
Address 
of the 
Beneficial 
Owner 
(Natural 
Person) 
Date 
of 
Birth 
Tax 
Residency 
Jurisdiction 
Nationa
lity 
Whether 
acting alone 
or together, 
or through 
one or more 
natural 
person as 
group with 
their name & 
address 
Beneficial 
Owner (BO) 
Group 
Percentage 
Shareholding / 
Capital/Profit 
Ownership in 
the FVCIs 
Tax 
Residency 
Number/ 
Social 
Security 
Number/ 
Passport 
Number of 
BO/ any 
other 
Governme
nt issued 
identity 
document 
number 
(example 
Driving 
Licence)  
[Please 
provide 
any] 
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) 
        
 
10.2. Does it have few persons or persons of the same family holding 
beneficial ownership and control?  
Yes /No 
 
11. Income details 
 Particulars Details 
a)  Source of 
Income: 
Please select the most appropriate: 
1) Capital Gains  
2) Income from Business/ Profession

[Page 35]
Page 35 of 48 
3) No Income 
4) Income from other Sources 
5) Income from House Property 
b)  Code for 
Business / 
Profession 
Cod
e  
Business/Profession  Co
de  
Business profession  
01  Medical Profession and 
Business  
11  Films, TV and such 
other entertainment  
02  Engineering  12  Information Technology  
03  Architecture  13  Builders and 
Developers  
04  Chartered Accountant/ 
Accountancy  
14  Members of Stock 
Exchange, Share 
Brokers and Sub-
Brokers  
05  Interior Decoration  15  Performing Arts and 
Yatra  
06  Technical Consultancy  16  Operation of Ships, 
Hovercraft, Aircrafts or 
Helicopters  
07  Company Secretary  17  Plying Taxis, Lorries, 
Trucks, Buses or other 
Commercial Vehicles  
08  Legal Practitioner and 
Solicitors  
18  Ownership of Horses or 
Jockeys  
09  Government 
Contractors  
19  Cinema Halls and 
Other Theatres  
10  Insurance Agency  20  Others  
 
c)  Gross 
Annual 
Income (in 
INR) 
 
d)  Net worth 
(Asset less 
liabilities) 
(in INR): 
  
as on dd/mm/yyyy 
 
12. Type of applicant: 
Please select the most appropriate category. 
Investment company, investment trust, investment partnership, pension 
fund, mutual fund, endowment fund, university fund, charitable institution 
or asset management company, investment manager or investment 
management company; any other investme nt vehicle incorporated or 
established outside India or any other entity incorporated or established 
outside India

[Page 36]
Page 36 of 48 
If any other entity or investment vehicle, please give details:  
 
 
13. Type of entity: 
Please select one of the below options: 
1) Private Company (R)  
2) Public Company (U)  
3) Body Corporate (D)  
4) Financial Institution (S)  
5) Non-Government Organisation (N)  
6) Charitable Organisation (C)  
 
14. Documents submitted as Proof of Identity (POI) and Proof of 
Address (POA) for KYC: 
 Particulars  Details 
a)  Proof of identity (POI)  
b)  Proof of Address (POA)  
 
15. Whether the applicant or the applicant's authorized signatories/ 
Promoters/ Partners/ Trustees/ Whole Time Directors/Office bearer 
is 
a) A politically exposed person                               Yes/No 
b) Related to a politically exposed person               Yes/No 
 
 
16. Whether the applicant has provided with valid self -certification/ 
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) / Common Reporting 
Standard (CRS) declaration form? 
Yes /Not applicable 
 
17. Details of Regulatory authority by which the applicant is regulated 
(If applicable)  
Name    
Country    Web-site    
Registration 
Number/Code 
with regulator,

[Page 37]
Page 37 of 48 
if any 
Category / 
Capacity in 
which the 
applicant is 
Regulated 
 
  
18. Whether the applicant is coming through Global Custodian? Yes/No 
If yes, please provide name of Global 
custodian  
 
Name of Regulator  
Country of Regulator  
Registration Number/ code with 
regulator, if any 
 
Address  
 
19. Details of the designated depository participant, custodian and 
Depository Participant: 
 
a) Details of Designated Depository Participant 
 
Name of the Designated Depository 
Participant 
 
SEBI Registration number for 
DDP/Custodian 
 
 
b) Details of Custodian  
 
Name of the Custodian   
SEBI Registration number for 
Custodian 
 
 
c) Details of Depository Participant  
 
Name of the Depository Participant  
SEBI Registration number for 
Depository Participant 
 
 
20. Details of the designated bank

[Page 38]
Page 38 of 48 
Name of the Bank and Branch  
Address  
 
21. Details of Prior association with Indian securities market 
Whether the applicant is/was anytime associated with Indian securities 
market in any capacity? Yes/No 
Name of the 
Entity  
Registered/ 
associated as 
SEBI 
Registration No. 
(if applicable) 
Period of 
registration 
    
 
22. Whether the applicant already holds Permanent Account Number 
(PAN)?  
Yes/No 
If yes, please mention PAN: ------------------------ 
 
23. Disciplinary History 
Whether there has been any instance of violation or non -adherence to 
the securities laws, code of ethics/conduct, code of business rules, for 
which the applicant or its parent/holding company or associate/or 
promoter/investment manager may have been subjected to criminal 
liability or suspended from carrying out its operations o r the registration, 
has been revoked, temporarily or permanently or any regulatory actions 
that have resulted in temporary or permanent suspension of investment 
related operations in jurisdiction where the applicant is operating and has 
a bearing on obtaining FVCI registration for investing in India? 
Yes/No 
 
If yes, please mention details briefly in below box. For more details, 
enclose Annexure. 
 
 
 
 
Declaration and Undertaking:  
We______________________________________________________, 
the applicant, in the capacity of _________________, do hereby declare 
that what is stated in the aforesaid application form (including the 
enclosed documents/annexures) is complete and true to the best of our

[Page 39]
Page 39 of 48 
information and belief. We undertake to inform you of any change s 
therein, immediately. In case any of the above information is found to be 
false or untrue or misleading or misrepresenting, we are aware that we 
may be held liable for it. We hereby apply for registration as Foreign 
Venture Capital Investor (“FVCI”) in a ccordance with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investor) Regulations, 
2000. Further, we have read and understood the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investor) Regulations, 2000, 
circulars issued thereunder, its operating guidelines, reply to frequently 
asked questions on FVCI regime provided by the Board and shall abide 
with any other terms and conditions specified by the Board from time to 
time. We hereby declare that we fulfil the eligibi lity criteria under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital 
Investor) Regulations, 2000 and we are eligible to register as a FVCI. 
Place: ------------------------------     Date: ------------------------- 
For and on behalf of applicant (Name of the applicant) 
 
Signature of   
Authorized Signatory   
   
Name of signatory   
Designation    
Date  Dd/mm/yyyy  
 
ANNEXURE TO APPLICATION FORM 
  
A: Declaration & Undertaking:  
  
1) We have read and understood the extant Indian laws, rules, regulations 
including Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital 
Investors) Regulations, 2000, Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (Act 
No. 42 of 1999) and rules & regulation s made thereunder, Depository and 
Depository Participants Regulations, circulars, guidelines issued therein and 
shall in relation to our activities as FVCI, at all times, comply with and subject 
ourselves to any other terms and conditions specified by the Board, Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI), Depository or any other regulators from time to time.

[Page 40]
Page 40 of 48 
2) We undertake to provide additional information/documents (including KYC 
documents exempted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India and 
Reserve Bank of India)/ declarations and undertakings as may be required by 
you/demand from any regulator/law enforcement agency/exchange without 
delay to ensure compliance with the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 
2002 (Act No. 15 of 2003) and rules and regulations prescribed  thereunder, 
FATF standards and circulars issued from time to time by the Board, RBI or 
any other regulators in compliance with said requirement.  
3) We undertake to abide by operational instructions/ directives as may be 
issued by Securities and Exchange Boa rd of India, Reserve Bank of India or 
any other authority from time to time under provisions of the Act or any other 
applicable law.  
4) We authorize custodian to operate the account through Power of Attorney 
(PoA) and not to receive credits automatically into our account.  
 
5) We authorize custodian to send statement of account in electronic form and 
we will ensure the confidentiality of the password of the email, as applicable  
6) We authorize custodian to maintain appropriate house account details on 
depository p latforms for the purpose of collection of monetary corporate 
benefits and any other similar activities on our behalf. 
  
B: Additional information 
  
1. If segregated portfolio is maintained for each sub -funds or share 
classes/ equivalent structures of the applicant, names of such sub -
funds or share classes/ equivalent structures that intend to invest in 
India.   
Sr. 
No.  Name of sub-funds or share classes/ equivalent structures that intend to 
invest in India  
    
(BO declaration at point 10 of application form is required for each fund/sub-
fund/share class/equivalent structure that invests in India)  
 
2. Bank or subsidiary of bank declaration   
  
 We are not a bank or a subsidiary of a bank

[Page 41]
Page 41 of 48 
 We are a bank or a subsidiary of a bank and we/ group companies have 
a branch office or representative office in India  
 Name of entity 
   We are a bank or a subsidiary of a bank and we/group companies do not 
have any branch office or representative office in India  
 
3. Does FVCI wish KRAs to seek consent prior to permitting any 
intermediary to download their KYC information? 
  
Yes/No 
If Yes, please provide below information  
Name of authorized representative of 
FVCI (optional)  
  
Email id 1 (Mandatory) :    
Email id 2 (Optional) :    
Email id 3 (Optional) :    
Mobile number (optional):    
  
4. Information in respect of Authorized signatories to Form/ senior 
management of FVCI applicant  
Sr. 
No. 
Name Relations 
hip with 
Applicant 
(i.e. 
promoters, 
directors, 
Signatory 
etc.) 
PAN 
(if 
applicable) 
Nationality 
/Country 
of 
Residence 
Date of 
Birth 
(DD/MM/Y 
YYY 
Residential/ 
Registered 
Address 
Any 
Government 
issued identity  
document  
number  
(example  
driving license) 
(1)  (2)  (3)  (4)  (5)  (6)  (7)  (8)  
1.                 
 
5. Information regarding Intermediate Material Shareholder/ Owner Entity

[Page 42]
Page 42 of 48 
(For determining Beneficial owner details as per circular issued by the Board 
from time to time)  
a) Details on the basis of ownership or entitlement:  
 We declare that there is no entity holding >= __% of ownership/ 
entitlement through shares/units, economic benefit participation etc. 
including cumulative direct / indirect holding held through single or multiple 
entities.  
    OR  
 Details of entities holding >=  ------% of ownership/ entitlement through 
shares/units, economic benefit participation etc. including cumulative direct / 
indirect holding held through single or multiple entities are provided as under:  
Name of 
Beneficial 
owner 
Direct / 
Indirect 
Stake 
Names of the 
entity(ies) through 
which the stake 
in the FVCI is held 
indirectly 
Country of 
Incorporation 
/ Nationality 
Percentage 
stake held 
in the 
applicant 
Individual 
/Non- 
Individual 
            
  
b) Beneficial Ownership by Control:  
 We declare that there is no entity who controls through means like voting 
rights, agreements, arrangements, etc.   
 OR  
 Details of controlling entity is provided as under:  
  
Name of 
Beneficial 
owner 
Method of Control (Give Details 
including names of the 
intermediate structures, if any, 
through which control is exercised 
) 
Country of 
Incorporation 
/ Nationality 
Percentage 
control on the 
applicant, if 
applicable 
Individual/Non-
Individual 
          
  
 Date:   
Name of Applicant:  
(Signature block for Applicant)  
Signature(s) of Authorised Person(s)

[Page 43]
Page 43 of 48 
  
PART B 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (FOREIGN VENTURE 
CAPITAL INVESTORS) REGULATIONS, 2000 
[See regulation 3(2)] 
  
CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION  
  
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1A) of section 12 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (the “Act”), read with the 
regulations made thereunder the Board hereby gra nts a certificate of 
registration to _________________________________ as a foreign 
venture capital investor, subject to the conditions specified in the Act and in 
the regulations made thereunder.   
II. The Registration Number for the foreign venture capital investor is 
…/.../.../.../....   
III. The address of the foreign venture capital investor is 
__________________ 
IV. This certificate shall be valid till it is suspended, cancelled or surrendered in 
accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Venture Capital Investors) Regulations, 2000.  
Date:   
Place:   
By Order 
 
Signature 
 
Name and Designation of the Authorized Signatory of 
Designated depository participant 
 
Issued on behalf of Securities and Exchange Board of India] 
 
 52[SECOND SCHEDULE 
                                                 
52 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. January 1, 2025. Prior to substitution, it read as under: 
SECOND SCHEDULE 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(FOREIGN VENTURE CAPITAL INVESTOR) REGULATIONS, 2000 
[See Regulations 3 and 7(2)]

[Page 44]
Page 44 of 48 
Payment of fees applicable to Foreign Venture Capital Investor  
 [See regulation 3(3), regulation 7(3) and regulation 9] 
Registration Fee 
(1) Foreign venture capital investor shall pay registration fees of 53[Rs. 2,30,000 
in eligible foreign exchange equivalent] or any other amount specified by the 
Board from time to time, 54[prior to the grant of certificate of registration ] to 
the designated depository participant. 
Renewal Fee 
(2) Foreign venture capital investor shall pay renewal fees of 55[Rs. 9,000 in 
eligible foreign exchange equivalent ] for every block of five years, to keep 
the registration in force. 
56[ Provided that in case of a SWAGAT -FI, the renewal fees shall be paid for 
every block of ten years to keep the registration in force.] 
(3) The designated depository participants of the respective foreign venture 
capital investors shall collect the renewal fees in advance for every block of 
five years, from the beginning of the sixth year from the date of registration, 
from all the foreign venture capital investors registered by it, and remit the 
fees to the Board in the manner specified by the Board from time to time. 
                                                                                                                                                 
FEES 
PART A 
Amount to be paid as fees 
Application fee                                                                           (US$) 2,100 
Registration fee       (US$) 8,500 
PART B 
The fees specified above shall be payable by way of direct credit into the bank account through 
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other mode as 
may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
53 Substituted for the words and symbols “ $2500” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Foreign Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 06-01-2027. 
54 Substituted for the words “ at the time of submission of the Form ” by the Securities and  
Exchange Board of India ( Foreign Venture Capital Investors ) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026 , 
w.e.f. 06-01-2027. 
55 Substituted for the words and symbols “ $100” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Foreign Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 06-01-2027. 
 
56 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. June 1, 2026.

[Page 45]
Page 45 of 48 
57[Provided that in case of a SWAGAT-FI, the renewal fees shall be collected 
in advance for every block of ten years, from the beginning of the eleventh 
year from the date of registration.] 
(4) International or multilateral agency such as World Bank and other 
institutions, established outside India for providing aid, wh ich have been 
granted privileges and immunities from payment of tax and duties by the 
Central Government shall be exempted from the payment of registration or 
renewal fees.   
 
Late Fee 
(5) If a foreign venture capital investor fails to pay the renewal fees wit hin the 
specified due date and has cash or security in India, such foreign venture 
capital investor shall pay the renewal fee as specified above, along with a 
late fee equal to 58[Rs. 500 in eligible foreign exchange equivalent ] per day 
for each day of delay in payment of renewal fee and the late fee shall be 
subject to maximum of 59[Rs. 15,000 in eligible foreign exchange equivalent].  
60[(6) Every designated depository participant shall remit the fees collected from 
the forei gn venture capital investors in INR to the Board in the following 
manner:  
 
(a) in the case of initial registration, within five working days from the date of 
grant of certificate of registration to the foreign venture capital investor, along 
with the details in the format, as may be specified from time to time; 
                                                 
57 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. June 1, 2026. 
58 Substituted for the words and symbols “ $5” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Foreign Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 06-01-2027. 
59 Substituted for the words and symbols “ $150” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Foreign Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 06-01-2027. 
 
60 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture C apital Investors) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 06-01-2027. Prior to its substitution, it read as under: 
“(6) Every designated depository participant shall remit the fees collected from the foreign venture 
capital investors during the immediate preceding month, to the Board, by 5th working day of 
every month, along with the details in the format, as may be specified from time to time.”

[Page 46]
Page 46 of 48 
(b) in the case of renewal fees paid for subsequent blocks after registration or 
any late fees, within five working days from the date of receipt of such fees 
by the designated depository participant, along with the details in the format, 
as may be specified from time to time.] 
 
61[Third Schedule]  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
61 Omitted by the SEBI (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 30.12.2014. Prior to its omission, the Third Schedule as amended by the SEBI (Foreign 
Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, w.e.f. 5-4-2004 read as under: 
 
THIRD SCHEDULE 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(FOREIGN VENTURE CAPITAL INVESTOR) REGULATIONS, 2000 
[See Regulation 2 (j)] 
NEGATIVE LIST 
 
1.   [* * *] 
2.  Non-banking financial services 29 [excluding those Non  – Banking Financial companies 
which are registered with Reserve Bank of India and have been categorized as Equipment 
Leasing or Hire Purchase companies. 
3.  Gold financing 30 [excluding those companies which are engaged in gold financing for 
jewellery]. 
4.  Activities not permitted under the Industrial Policy of Government of India.  
5.  Any other activity which may be specified by the Board in consultation with the Government 
of India from time to time.

[Page 47]
Page 47 of 48 
Note:  
(1) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) 
Regulations, 2000, the Principal Regulations, were published in the Gazette of India on 
September 15, 2000 vide S.O. No.832 (E).  
 
(2) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Fo reign Venture Capital Investors) 
Regulations, 2000 were subsequently amended: –  
 
(a) on June 7, 2001 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture 
Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2001 vide S.O. No. 501(E);  
(b) on September 27, 2002 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) 
Regulations, 2002 vide S.O. No. 1045 (E);  
(c) on March 10, 2004 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Criteria for 
Fit and Proper Person) Regulations, 2004 vide S.O. No. 398(E);  
(d) on April 5, 2004 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004 vide S.O. No. 
469(E);  
(e) on September 4, 2006 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006 vide S.O. 1443 (E);  
(f) on May 26, 2008 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008 vide No LAD-NRO/GN/2008/11/126538;  
(g) on J une 29, 2009 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of 
Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, vide No. LAD -NRO/GN/2009-
10/11/167759;  
(h) on December 21, 2010 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2010, vide No.  LAD-
NRO/GN/ 2010-11/22/30364;  
(i) on May 21, 2012 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012, vide No. LAD -NRO/GN/2012-
13/04/11262; 
(j) on December 30. 2014 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, vide No. LAD -
NRO/GN/2014-15/20/1972; 
(k) on March 6, 2017 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of 
Fees and Mode of Payment ) (Amendment) Regulat ions, 2017, vide No. 
SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/037; 
(l) on April 17, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2020/10; 
(m) on August 3, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2021/30; 
(n) on November 9, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment 
of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022, vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2022/99;

[Page 48]
Page 48 of 48 
(o) on February 7, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of 
Fees and Mode of Payment ) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/121;  
(p) on September 6, 2024  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Venture Capital Investor s) (Amendment) Regulations, 202 4, vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/203; 
(q) on December 3, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 202 5, vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/280; and 
(r) on July 10, 202 6 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Venture Capital Investors) (Amendment) Regulations, 202 6, vide No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/309. 
 
 
 
*** 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations]
