[Page 1]
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUNDS) REGULATIONS, 2012 
 
Amended upto July 14, 2026 
 
LAD-NRO/GN/2012-13/04/11262. —  In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
Section 30 read with sub -section (1) of Section 11, clause (ba) and clause (c) of sub -section (2) 
of Section 11 and sub -section (1) and (1B) of Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) the Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby, makes the 
following regulations, namely, — 
 
CHAPTER – I 
PRELIMINARY 
 
Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations shall be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012. 
 (2) These regulations shall come into force on the dat e of their notification in the Official 
Gazette. 
Definitions. 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions and variations 
shall be construed accordingly,— 
(a)     “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);

[Page 2]
1[(aa)  “accreditation agency” means a subsidiary of a recognized stock exchange or a 
subsidiary of a depository or any other entity as may be spec ified by the Board 
from time to time. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, the Board may recognize an 
accreditation agency subject to such conditions as may be specified; 
(ab)  “accredited investor” means any person who is granted a certificate of 
accreditation by an accreditation agency who,  
(i) in case of an individual, Hindu Undivided Family, family trust or sole 
proprietorship has:   
(A) annual income of at least two crore rupees; or 
(B) net worth of at least seven crore fifty lakh rupees, out of which not  less 
than three crores seventy -five lakh rupees is in the form of financial 
assets; or 
(C) annual income of at least one crore rupees and minimum net worth of 
five crore rupees, out of which not less than two crore fifty lakh rupees 
is in the form of financial assets. 
(ii) in case of a body corporate, has net worth of at least fifty crore rupees; 
(iii) in case of a trust other than family trust, has net worth of at least fifty crore 
rupees; 
(iv) in case of a partnership firm set up under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, 
each partner independently meets the eligibility criteria for accreditation: 
Provided that the Central Government and the State Governments, developmental 
agencies set up under the aegis of the Central Government or the State 
Governments, funds set up by the C entral Government or the State Governments, 
qualified institutional buyers as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, 
Category I foreign portfolio investors, sovereign wealt h funds and multilateral 
agencies and any other entity as may be specified by the Board from time to time, 
                                                      
1 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021.

[Page 3]
shall deemed to be an accredited investor and may not be required to obtain a 
certificate of accreditation;] 
2[(ac) “Accredited Investors only fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund or 
scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund in which each investor other than the 
Manager, Sponsor, employees or directors of the Alternative Investment Fund or 
employees or directors of the Manager, is an Accredited Investor: 
Provided that an Alternative Investment Fund or a scheme of an Alternative 
Investment Fund, launched prior to the notification of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2025, may be per mitted to convert to Accredited Investors only fund, subject to 
the conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
Explanation - ‘Accredited Investors only fund’ shall include ‘large value fund for 
accredited investors’.] 
(b) “Alternative Investment Fund” means any fund established or incorporated in India 
in the form of a trust or a company or a limited liability partnership or a body 
corporate which,- 
(i) is a privately pooled investment vehicle which collects funds from 
investors, whether Indian or foreign, fo r investing it in accordance with a 
defined investment policy for the benefit of its investors; and 
(ii) is not covered under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
Funds) Regulations, 1996, Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Collective Investm ent Schemes) Regulations, 1999 or any other 
regulations of the Board to regulate fund management activities: 
Provided that the following shall not be considered as Alternative Investment 
Fund for the purpose of these regulations,-  
                                                      
2 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19-11-2025.

[Page 4]
(i) family trusts set up for  the benefit of ‘relatives’ as defined under 
3[Companies Act, 2013];  
(ii) 4[ESOP Trusts set up under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 or as permitted under 
Companies Act, 2013;] 
(iii) employee welfare trust s or gratuity trusts set up for the benefit of 
employees; 
(iv) 5[’holding companies’ as defined under sub -section 46 of section 2 of 
Companies Act, 2013;] 
(v) other special purpose vehicles not established by fund managers, including 
securitization trusts, regulated under a specific regulatory framework;  
(vi) funds managed by securitisation company or reconstruction company 
which is registered with the Reserve Bank of India under Section 3 of the 
Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of 
Security Interest Act, 2002; and 
(vii) any such pool of funds which is directly regulated by any other regulator 
in India; 
(c)    “associate” means a company or a limited liability partnership or a body corporate 
in which a director or trustee or partner or Spons or or Manager of the Alternative 
Investment Fund or a director or partner of the Manager or Sponsor holds, either 
individually or collectively, more than fifteen percent of its paid -up equity share 
capital or partnership interest, as the case may be;  
                                                      
3 Substituted by the Securities and Ex change Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956”. 
4 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01 -06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “(ii) ESOP Trusts set up under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme), 
Guidelines, 1999 or as permitted under Companies Act, 1956;” 
5 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “ holding companies’ within the meaning of 
Section 4 of the Companies Act, 1956;”.

[Page 5]
(d)   “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under 
Section 3 of the Act; 
(e)  “certificate” means a certificate of registration grante d by the Board under 
regulation 6; 
6[(f) “Change in control” – 
(i) in case of a body corporate –  
(A) if its shares are listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be construed 
with reference to the definition of control in terms of regulations framed under 
clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act;  
(B) if its shares are not listed o n any recognised stock exchange, shall be construed 
with reference to the definition of control as provided in sub-section (27) of Section 
2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);   
(ii) in a case other than that of a body corporate, shall be construed as any change in its 
legal formation or ownership or change in controlling interest. 
Explanation – For the purpose of sub -clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” 
means an interest, direct or indirect, to the extent of not less than fifty percent of 
voting rights or interest;] 
7[(fa) “Co-investment” means investment made by a Manager or Sponsor or investor 
of a Category I or II Alternative Investment Fund in unlisted s ecurities of investee 
                                                      
6 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Control in Intermediaries) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 17-1-2023. Prior to the substitution, clause (f) read as under: 
““change in control” in relation to a company or  a body corporate, means: 
(i) if its shares are listed on any recognized stock exchange, change in control within the meaning of 
clause (e) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
(ii) in any other case, change in the controlling interest or change in legal form; 
Explanation.─ For the purpose of sub -clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means an 
interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of more than fifty percent of voting rights or 
interest;” 
7 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to the substitution, it read as-

[Page 6]
companies where such a Category I or Category II Alternative Investment Fund makes 
investment;] 
8[(fb) “Co-investment scheme” means a scheme of a Catego ry I or Category II 
Alternative Investment Fund, which facilitates co -investment to investors of a 
particular scheme of an  Alternative Investment Fund, in unlisted  securities o f an 
investee company where the scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund is making 
investment or has invested;] 
(g)  “company” means a company incorporated under the 9[Companies Act, 2013]; 
10[(ga) “Corporate Debt Market Development Fund” means an  Alternative Investment 
Fund set up and making investments in terms of Chapter III-C of these regulations.] 
(h) “corpus” means the total amount of funds committed by investors to the Alternative 
Investment Fund by way of a written contract or any such document  as on a 
particular date;  
11[(ha) “credit default swaps” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Master 
Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Credit Derivatives) Directions, 2022.] 
12[13[(hb)]  “custodian” means a person who has been granted a cert ificate of registration 
to carry on the business of custodian under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Custodian) Regulations, 1996;] 
                                                                                                                                                                           
“(fa) “Co-investment” means investment made by a Manager or Sponsor or investor of Category I and II  
Alternative  Investment  Fund(s)  in  investee  companies  where  such  Category  I  or  Category  II Alternative 
Investment Fund(s) make investment: 
Provided  that  Co -investment  by  investors  of Alternative  Investment  Fundshall  be  through  a  Co -investment  
Portfolio  Manager  as  specified  under  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Portfolio Managers) 
Regulations, 2020.” 
8 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
9 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment ) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956”. 
10 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f  15-06-2023. 
11 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f  09-01-2023. 
12 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India   (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 10-05-2019. 
13 Substituted for (“ha”) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f  09-01-2023.

[Page 7]
14[(i) “debt fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests primarily in debt 
securities of listed or un listed investee companies or in securitized debt 
instruments as per the stated objectives of the Fund;] 
15[(ia) “dissolution period” means the period following the expiry of the liquidation 
period of the scheme for the purpose of liquidating the unliquidate d investments 
of the scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund. 
(ib) “encumbrance” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under chapter V of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.] 
(j) “equity linked instruments” includes instruments convertible into equity shares or 
share warrants, preference shares, debentures compulsorily or optionally 
convertible into equity;  
(k) “form” means any of the forms set out in the First Schedule; 
16[(ka)  “goods” means the goods notified by the Central Government under clause (bc) 
of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and forming the 
underlying of any commodity derivative;] 
(l) “hedge fund” means an Alternative  Investment Fund which e mploys diverse or 
complex trading strategies and invests and trades in securities having diverse risks 
or complex products including listed and unlisted derivatives; 
(m) “infrastructure fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests 
primarily in unlisted securities or partnership interest or listed debt or securitized 
debt instruments of investee companies or special purpose vehicles engaged in or 
formed for the purpose of  operating, developing or holding infrastructure 
projects; 
                                                      
14 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fo urth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(i) “debt fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests primarily in debt or debt securities of listed or 
unlisted investee companies according to the stated objectives of the Fund;” 
15 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 25-04-2024. 
16 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 
2019, w.e.f. 10-05-2019.

[Page 8]
Explanation.─ ‘Infra structure’ shall be as defined by the government of India 
from time to time. 
(n)  “inspecting authority” means any one or more person appointed by the Board  to 
exercise powers conferred under regulation 30;  
(o) “investee company” means any company, special purpo se vehicle or limited 
liability partnership or body corporate  17[or real estate investment trust or 
infrastructure investment trust]  in which an Alternative Investment Fund makes 
an investment; 
18[(p) “investable funds” means corpus of the scheme of Alternat ive Investment Fund net 
of expenditure for administration and management of the fund estimated for the 
tenure of the fund. 
Explanation.─ For the purpose of this clause, the expression “tenure” means the 
duration of scheme from the 19[date of first close]  till 20[last date] of the term as 
specified in the fund documents;] 
21[(pa)  “large value fund for accredited investors” means an Alternative Investment Fund 
or scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund in which each investor (other than 
the Manager, Sponsor, employees or directors of the Alternative Investment Fund 
or employees or directors of the Manager) is an accredited investor and invests not 
less than 22[twenty-five] crore rupees;] 
                                                      
17 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 
26-09-2014.  
18 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternati ve Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(p) “investible funds” means corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund net of estimated expenditure for 
administration and management of the fund;” 
19 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. Prior to the substitution, it read as “day of its launch”. 
20 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. Prior to the substitution, it read as “last day”. 
21 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Am endment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
22 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19-11-2025. Prior to the substitution, it read as “seventy”.

[Page 9]
23[Provided that an Alternative Investment Fund or a sche me of an Alternative 
Investment Fund, launched prior to the notification of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Thi rd Amendment) Regu lations, 
2025, may be permitted to convert to a large value fund for accredited investors, 
subject to the conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 
24[(pb)  “liquidation period” means a period of one year following the expiry of tenure  or 
extended tenure of the scheme 25[***] of an Alternative Investment Fund; 
(pc) “liquidation scheme” means a close ended scheme launched by an Alternative 
Investment Fund only for the purpose of liquidating the unliquidated investments 
purchased from its scheme, whose tenure has expired.] 
(q) “manager” means any person or entity who is appointed by the Alternative 
Investment Fund to manage its investments by whatever name called and may 
also be same as the sponsor of the Fund; 
26[(qa) “not for profit organizati on” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in                
clause (e) of regulation 292A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;] 
(r) “private equity fund” means an Alternative In vestment Fund which invests 
primarily in equity or equity linked instruments or partnership interests of 
investee companies according to the stated objective of the fund; 
27[(ra)   “Shelf placement memorandum” means a p lacement memorandum filed by an 
Alternative Investment Fund for launching co-investment schemes;] 
                                                      
23 Inserted by  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19-11-2025. 
24 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
25 The words “for fully liquidating the scheme ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 25-04-2024.  
26 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 25-07-2022. 
27 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025.

[Page 10]
(s) “SME” means Small and Medium Enterprise  and shall have the same meaning as 
assigned to it under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act 
2006 as amended from time to time;  
(t) “SME fu nd” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests primarily in 
unlisted securities of investee companies which are SMEs or securities of those 
SMEs which are listed or proposed to be listed on a SME exchange or SME 
segment of an exchange;  
   28[(ta) “social enterprise” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (h) of 
regulation 292A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; 
      (tb)     “social impact fund” means an A lternative Investment Fund which invests 
primarily in securities, units or partnership interest of social ventures or securities 
of social enterprises and which satisfies the social performance norms laid down 
by the fund; 
 (tc)   “social stock exchange” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (i) 
of regulation 292A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; 
 (td)    “social units” means units issued by a social impact fund  or schemes of a social 
impact fund to investors who have agreed to receive only social returns or 
benefits and no financial returns against their contribution;] 
(u) “social venture” means a trust, society or company or venture capital undertaking 
or limited l iability partnership formed with the purpose of promoting social 
welfare or solving social problems or providing social benefits and includes,- 
(i) public charitable trusts registered with Charity Commissioner; 
(ii) societies registered for charitable purposes or f or promotion of science, 
literature, or fine arts; 
(iii) 29[company registered under section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013;]  
                                                      
28 Inserted by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 25-07-2022.

[Page 11]
(iv) micro finance institutions; 
(v) 30[***] 
(w) “sponsor” means any person or persons who set up the Alternative Investment 
Fund and includes promoter in case of a company and designated partner in case 
of a limited liability partnership;  
31[(wa) “startup” means a private limited company or a limited liability partnership which 
fulfills the criteria for startup as specified by the Department of Promotion  of 
Industry and Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of 
India, vide notification no. G.S.R. 127(E) dated February 19, 2019 or such other 
policy of the Central Government issued in this regard from time to time;] 
(x) “trust” means a tr ust established under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 or under an 
Act of Parliament or State Legislation; 
32[(y)     “unit” means beneficial interest of the investors in the Alternative  Investment 
Fund or a scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund and may  be fully or partly 
paid up. 
Explanation.─ For the purpose of this clause, partly paid up units shall represent 
the portion of committed capital invested by the investor in Alternative 
Investment Fund or scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund;] 
(z)  “venture cap ital fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests 
primarily in unlisted securities of start -ups, emerging or early -stage venture 
                                                                                                                                                                           
29 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “ company registered under Section 25 of 
the Companies Act, 1956”. 
30 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 25 -07-2022. Prior to its omission, clause (v) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 2 read as 
under:  
“social  venture  fund”  means  an  Alternative  Investment  Fund  which  invests primarily  in  securities  or  units  
of  social  ventures  and  which  satisfies  social performance norms laid down by the fund and whose investors may 
agree to receive restricted or muted returns;”  
31 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. 
32 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
(z) “unit” means beneficial interest of the investors in the Alternative Investment Fund or a scheme of the 
Alternative Investment Fund and shall include shares or partnership interests;

[Page 12]
capital undertakings mainly involved in new products, new services, technology 
or intellectual property right based activities or a new business model  33[and shall 
include 34[a]  35[ migrated venture capital fund as defined under Chapter III-D]]; 
36[37[(za)] “venture capital undertaking” means a domestic company which is not listed on 
a recognised stock exchange at the time of making investments;] 
(2) All other expressions unless defined herein shall have the same meaning as have been 
assigned to them under the Act or the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, (42 
of 1956) or the 38[Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) ], or any statutory modification or 
re-enactment thereto, as the case may be. 
 
CHAPTER II 
REGISTRATION OF ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUNDS 
Registration of Alternative Investment Funds. 
3. (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, no entity or person shall act  as an 
Alternative Investment Fund unless it has obtained a certificate of registration from the 
Board: 
                                                      
33 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013 
34 Substituted for “an angel fund as defined under Chapter III -A and” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  
(Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09 -09-2025. 
35 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Boar d of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 20-07-2024. 
36 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its substitution, clause (aa) read as under : 
“(aa) “venture capital undertaking” means a domestic company:  
(i) which is not listed on a recognised stock exchange in India at the time of making investment; and  
(ii) which is engaged in the business for provi ding services, production or manufacture of article or things and 
does not include following activities or sectors: 
(1) non-banking financial companies; 
(2) gold financing; 
(3) activities not permitted under industrial policy of Government of India; 
(4) any other activity which may be specified by the Board in consultation with Government of India from time 
to time;” 
37 Substituted for “(aa)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
38 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”.

[Page 13]
Provided that an existing fund falling within the definition of Alternative Investment 
Fund which is not registered with the Board may continue to opera te for a period of six 
months from commencement of these regulations or if it has made an application for 
registration under sub -regulation (5) within the said period of six months, till the 
disposal of such application: 
Provided further that the Board may , in special cases, extend the said period up to a 
maximum of twelve months from the date of such commencement:  
Provided further that existing schemes will be allowed to complete their agreed tenure, 
such funds shall not raise any fresh monies other than commitments already made till 
registration is granted under regulation 6: 
39[Provided further that such existing funds, which do not propose to accept any fresh 
commitments after commencement of these regulations shall not be required to obtain 
registration under these regulations subject to submission of information on their 
activities to the Board in the manner as may be specified] 
Provided further that if such existing funds are not able to comply with co nditions 
specified under these regulations, they may apply for exemption to the Board fro m strict 
compliance with these r egulations and the Board upon examination may provide such 
exemptions or issue such instructions as may be deemed appropriate.  
(2) The funds registered as venture capital fund under Securit ies and Exchange Board of 
India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 shall continue to be regulated by the 
said regulations till the existing fund or scheme managed by the fund is wound up  and 
such funds shall not launch any new scheme after notification of these regulations:  
Provided that the existing fund or scheme shall not increase the targeted corpus of the 
fund or scheme after notification of these regulations. 
                                                      
39 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013.

[Page 14]
Provided further that venture capital funds may seek  40[registration under these 
regulations as migrated venture capital funds in terms of Chapter III -D, within twelve 
months from the date of notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024]. 
41[Provided further th at the Board may specify enhanced regulatory reporting and other 
measures for the venture capital funds that do not seek registration as a migrated venture 
capital fund in terms of Chapter III-D.] 
(3) Any entity referred to in sub-regulation (1) who fails to make an application for grant of a 
certificate within the period specified therein shall cease to carry on any activity as an 
Alternative Investment Fund. 
(4) Alternative Investment Funds shall seek registration in one of the categories mentioned 
hereunder and in case of Category I Alternative Investment Fund, in one of the sub -
categories thereof: 
(a)  “Category I Alternative  Investment Fund” which invests in start -up or early 
stage ventures or social ventures or SMEs or infrastructure or other sectors or 
areas whi ch the government or regulators consider as socially or economically 
desirable and shall include venture capital funds, SME Funds, 42[angel 
funds,]43[social impact funds] , infrastructure funds 44[, special situation funds]  and 
such other Alternative  Investment Funds as may be specified; 
Explanation.─ For the purpose of this clause, Alternative Investment Funds 
which are generally perceived to have positive spillover effects on economy and 
for which the Board or Government of India or other regulators in India might 
consider providing incentives or co ncessions shall be included  and such funds 
                                                      
40 Substituted for the words “ re-registration under these regulations subject to approval of two -thirds of their 
investors by value of their inve stment” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 20-07-2024. 
41 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 20-07-2024. 
42 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
43 Substituted for the words “ social venture funds ” by the Securities and Exchange Boar d of India  (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
44 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 24.01.2022.

[Page 15]
which are formed as trusts or companies shall be construed as “venture capital 
company” or “venture capital fund” as specified under sub -section (23FB) of 
Section 10 of the Income Tax Act, 1961.  
(b) “Category II Alternative  Investment Fund” which does not fall in Category I and 
III and which does not undertake leverage or borrowing other than [***]45 as 
permitted in these regulations;  
Explanation.─ For the purpose of this clause, Alternative Investment Funds such 
as private equity funds or debt funds for which no specific incentives or 
concessions are given by the government or any other Regulator shall be 
included.  
(c) “Category III Alternative  Inve stment Fund” which employs diverse or complex 
trading strategies and may employ leverage including through investment in listed 
or unlisted derivatives. 
Explanation.─  For the purpose of this clause, Alternative  Investment Funds 
such as hedge funds or fun ds which trade with a view to make short term returns 
or such other funds which are open ended and for which no specific incentives or 
concessions are given by the government or any other Regulator shall be 
included.  
(d) 46[specified Alternative Investment Fun d under Regulation 19 of these 
regulations.] 
(5) An application for grant of certificate shall be made for any of the categories as specified 
in sub-regulation (4) in Form A as specified in the First Schedule to these regulations 
and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Part A of 
the Second Schedule to these regulations to be paid in the manner specified in Part B 
thereof. 
                                                      
45 The words “to meet day-to-day operational requirements and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 07-08-2024. 
46 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investme nt Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023.

[Page 16]
(6) The Board shall take into account requirements as specified in the se regulations for the 
purpose of considering grant of registration. 
(7) Without prejudice to the powers of the Board to take any action under the Act or 
regulations made there under , the certificate of registration shall be valid till the 
Alternative Investment Fund is wound up. 
(8) The Board may, in the interest of the investors, issue directions with regard to the transfer 
of records, documents or securities or disposal of investments relating to its activities as 
an Alternative Investment Fund. 
(9) The Board may, in order to protect the interests of in vestors, appoint any person to take 
charge of records, documents, securities and for this purpose, also determine the terms 
and conditions of such an appointment. 
Eligibility Criteria. 
4. For the purpose of the grant of certificate to an applicant, the Board shall consider the 
following conditions for eligibility, namely, — 
(a) the memorandum of association in case of a company; or the Trust Deed in case 
of a Trust; or the Partnership deed in case of a limited liability partnership permits 
it to carry on the activity of an Alternative Investment Fund; 
(b) the applicant is prohibited by its memorandum and articles of association or trust 
deed or partnership deed from making an invitation to the public to subscribe to 
its securities; 
(c) in case the applicant is a Trust, the instrument of trust is in the form of a deed and 
has been duly registered under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908; 
(d) in case the applicant is a limited liability partnership, the partnership is duly 
incorporated and the partnership deed has been duly filed with the Registrar under 
the provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008; 
(e) in case the applicant is a body corporate, it is set up or established under the laws 
of the Central or State Legislature and is permitted to carry on the ac tivities of an 
Alternative Investment Fund;

[Page 17]
(f) the applicant, Sponsor and Manager are fit and proper persons based on the 
criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; 
(g) 47[The key investment team of the Manager of Alternative Investment Fund has -  
(i) 48[at least one key personnel with relevant certification as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time]49[:] 
50[Provided that the provisions of this sub -clause shall not apply to 
Accredited Investors only fund; and] 
(ii) at least one key personnel with professional qualification in finance, 
accountancy, business management, commerce, economics, capital 
market or banking from a university or an institution recognized by 
the Central Government or any Sta te Government or a foreign 
university, or a CFA charter from the CFA institute or any other 
qualification as may be specified by the Board: 
 
Provided that the  requirements 51[***] as specified in regulation 
4(g)(i) and 4(g)(ii) may also be fulfilled by the same key personnel.] 
 
                                                      
47 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020 w.e.f 19-10-2020. Prior to its substitution, clause (g) read as follows; 
“(g) the key investment team of the Manager of Alternative Investment Fund has adequate experience, with at least 
one key personnel having not less than five years experience in advising or managing pools of capital or in fund or 
asset or wealth or portfoli o management or in the business of buying, selling and dealing of securities or other 
financial assets and has relevant professional qualification;” 
48 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 202 3 w.e.f such date as the Board may by notification in the Official Gazette appoint . Prior to its 
substitution, sub-clause (i) read as follows: 
“(i) adequate experience, with at least one key personnel having not less than five years of e xperience in advising or 
managing pools of capital or in fund or asset or wealth or portfolio management or in the business of buying, selling 
and dealing of securities or other financial assets;” 
49 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19-11-2025. Prior to the substitution, it read as “; and”. 
50 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19-11-2025. 
51 The words “of experience and professional qualification ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) Regulations, 202 3 w.e.f such date as the Board may by 
notification in the Official Gazette appoint.

[Page 18]
52[Provided further that a fresh certification shall be obtained before 
expiry of the validity of the existing certification to ensure continuity 
in compliance with the certification requirement.] 
 
(h) the Manager or Sponsor  has the necess ary infrastructure and manpower to 
effectively discharge its activities; 
(i) the applicant has clearly described at the time of registration the investment 
objective, the targeted investors,  proposed corpus, investment style or strategy 
and proposed tenure of the fund or scheme; 
(j) whether the applicant or any entity established by the Sponsor or Manager has 
earlier been refused registration by the Board. 
 
Furnishing of Information. 
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish any such further information o r 
clarification regarding the Sponsor or Manager or nature of the fund or fund 
management activities or any such matter connected thereto to consider the application 
for grant of a certificate or after registration thereon. 
(2) If required by the Board, the ap plicant or Sponsor or Manager shall appear before the 
Board for personal representation. 
 
Procedure for grant of Certificate. 
6. (1) The Board may grant certificate under any specific category of Alternative Investment 
Fund, if it is satisfied that the applic ant fulfills the requirements as specified in the se 
regulations.  
(2) The Board shall, on receipt of the registration fee as specified in the Second Schedule, 
grant a certificate of registration in Form B. 
                                                      
52 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f such date as the Board may by notification in the Official Gazette appoint .

[Page 19]
(3) The registration may be granted with such conditions a s may be deemed appropriate by 
the Board. 
53[(4) The Board may, on being satisfied that the applicant complies with the provisions of 
regulation 4 except those of clause (c) or clause (d) thereof, as the case may be, grant an in -
principle approval to the applicant: 
Provided that the applicant shall comply with clause (c) or clause (d) of regulation 4, as 
the case may be, within six months from the date of grant of in -principle approval and upon 
compliance with the same, the Board may grant a certificate of r egistration under sub -
regulation (2). 
(5) An Alternative Investment Fund that has been granted in-principle approval may accept 
commitments from investors but shall not accept any monies till it is granted registration 
under sub-regulation (2) of this regulation.] 
Conditions of certificate.  
7. (1) The certificate granted under regulation 6 shall, inter -alia, be subject to the following 
conditions:-  
(a) the Alternative Investment Fund shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these 
regulations; 
(b) the Alternative Investment Fund shall not carry on any other activity other than 
permitted activities; 
(c) the Alternative Investment Fund shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if 
any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be 
false or misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in 
the information already submitted.  
(2) An Alternative Investment Fund which has been granted registration under a particular 
category cannot change its category subsequent to regist ration, except with the approval 
of the Board. 
                                                      
53 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013

[Page 20]
Procedure where registration is refused. 
8. (1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion 
that a certificate should not be granted, it may reject the application aft er giving the 
applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the 
applicant within thirty days. 
(3) Where an application for a certificate is rejected by the Board, the applicant s hall cease 
to carry on any activity as an Alternative Investment Fund: 
Provided that nothing contained in these regulations shall affect the liability of the 
applicant towards its existing investors under law or agreement. 
 
CHAPTER III 
INVESTMENT CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS 
Investment Strategy. 
9. (1) All Alternative Investment Funds shall state investment strategy, investment purpose 
and its investment methodology in its placement memorandum to the investors.  
(2) Any material alteration to the fund strategy shal l be made with the consent of atleast 
two-thirds of unit holders by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment 
Fund.   
 
Investment in Alternative Investment Fund. 
10. Investment in all categories of Alternative Investment Funds shall be subject to  the following 
conditions:- 
(a) the Alternative Investment Fund may raise funds from any investor whether Indian, 
foreign or non-resident Indians by way of issue of units 54[:] 
                                                      
54 Substituted for the symbol “;” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022.

[Page 21]
55[Provided that a social impact fund or schemes of a social impact fu nd may also iss ue 
social units;] 
56[(aa) The Alternative Investment Fund shall issue units in dematerialised form subject to the 
conditions specified by the Board from time to time.] 
(b) each scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall have corpus of at least twenty crore 
rupees 57[:] 
58[Provided that each scheme of the social impact fund shall have a corpus of at least 
five crore rupees;] 
(c) the Alternative Investment Fund shall not accept from an investor, an investment of value 
less than one crore rupees: 
 Provided that in c ase of investors who are employees or directors of the Alternative 
Investment Fund or employees or directors of the Manager, the minimum value of 
investment shall be twenty five lakh rupees 59[:] 
60[Provided further that this clause shall not apply to an accredited investor61[:]] 
62[Provided further that in case of a social impact fund which invests only in securities 
of not for profit organizations registered or listed on a social stock exchange, the 
minimum value of investment by an individual investor shall be 63[one thousand]  
rupees;] 
                                                      
55 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
56 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds ) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
57 Substituted for the symbol “;” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f  25.07.2022. 
58 Inserted by the Securities and E xchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
59 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
60 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
61 Substituted for the symbol “;” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fu nds) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f  25.07.2022 
62 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
63 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 18-04-2026. Prior to the substitution, it read as “two lakh”.

[Page 22]
(d) the Manager or Sponsor shall have a continuing interest in the Alternative Investment 
Fund of not less than two and half percent of the corpus or five crore rupees, whichever 
is lower, in the form of investment in the Alternativ e Investment Fund and such interest 
shall not be through the waiver of management fees: 
Provided that for Category III Alternative Investment Fund, the continuing interest shall 
be not less than five percent of the corpus or ten crore rupees, whichever is lower.  
(e) the Manager or Sponsor shall disclose their investment in the Alternative Investment 
Fund to the investors of the Alternative  Investment Fund; 
(f) no scheme of the Alternative  Investment Fund shall have m ore than one thousand 
investors64[:] 
65[Provided that accredited investors shall be excluded while c omputing the number of 
investor in a scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund:] 
66[Provided 67[further] that the provisions of the 68[Companies Act, 2013] shall apply to 
the Alternative Investment Fund, if it is formed as a company.]  
(g) the fund shall not solicit or collect funds except by way of private placement. 
Placement Memorandum. 
11. (1) Alternative Investment Fund shall raise funds through private placement by issue of 
information memorandum or placement memorandum, by whatever name called. 
(2) Such information or placement memorandum as specified in sub -regulation (1) shall 
contain all material information about the Alternative  Investment Fund and the Manager,  
background of key investment team of the Manager,  targeted investors, fees and all other 
expenses proposed to be charged, tenure of the Alternative  Investment Fund or scheme, 
                                                      
64 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013 for the  symbol “;” 
65 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19-11-2025. 
66 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative I nvestment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013  
67 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19-11-2025. 
68 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956”.

[Page 23]
conditions or limits on redemption, investment strategy, risk management tools and 
parameters employed, key service providers,  69[terms of reference of the committee 
constituted for approving the decisions of the Alternative Investment Fund, ] conflict of 
interest and procedures to identify and address them, disciplinary history, the terms and 
conditions on which the Manager offers in vestment services, its affiliations with other 
intermediaries, manner of winding up of the Alternative  Investment Fund or the scheme 
and such other information as may be necessary for the investor to take an informed 
decision on whether to invest in the Alternative  Investment Fund. 
Schemes. 
12. (1) The Alternative Investment Fund may launch schemes subject to filing of placement 
memorandum with the Board 70[along with the fees as specified in the Second Schedule:] 
71[Provided that payment of scheme fees shall n ot apply in case of launch of first scheme by 
the Alternative Investment Fund.] 
(2) Such placement memorandum shall be filed with the Board  72[through a merchant 
banker] atleast 73[ten working]  days prior to launch of scheme along with the 
74[documents specified by the Board.] 
75[***] 
76[(3) After the documents specified under sub -regulation (2) are filed with the Board, the 
Board may communicate its comments, if any, to the merchant banker or the Manager.  ] 
                                                      
69 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Ame ndment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. 
70 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 14-07-2026. 
71 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange B oard of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 14-07-2026. 
72 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-11-2021. 
73 Substituted for the words “thirty” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 14-07-2026. 
74 Substituted for the words and symbol “ fees as specified in the Second Schedule: ” by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 14-07-2026. 
75 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 14-07-2026. Prior to its omission, the proviso to regulation 12(2) read as under:  
“Provided that payment of scheme fees shall not apply in case of launch of first scheme by the Alternative 
Investment Fund.”

[Page 24]
77[(3A) The merchant banker or the Manager shall ensure th at the comments provided under 
sub-regulation (3) are complied with:] 
78[Provided that the requirements under sub-regulation (2)79[, (3) and (3A) shall not apply 
to Accredited Investors only fund].] 
80[(4) The first close of the scheme shall be declared by an Alternative Investment Fund in 
the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(5) Notwithstanding the proviso to sub -regulation (2), if the Alternative Investment Fund 
fails to declare the first close of the scheme in the specified manner, it shall be required to 
file a fresh application for launch of the scheme by paying the requisite scheme fee under 
the Second Schedule.] 
Tenure. 
13. (1) Category I Alternative Investment Fund and Category II Alternative Investment Fund 
shall be close ended and the tenure of fund or scheme shall be determined at the time of 
application subject to sub-regulation (2) of this regulation. 
(2) Category I and II Alternative Investment Fund or schemes launched by such funds shall 
have a minimum tenure of three years. 
(3) 81[Schemes of] Category III Alternative Investment Fund may be open ended or close 
ended.  
                                                                                                                                                                           
76 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Boa rd of India (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 14-07-2026. Prior to its substitution, it read as:  
“(3) The Board may communicate its comments, if any, to the merchant banker prior to launch of the scheme and 
the me rchant banker shall ensure that the comments are incorporated in the placement memorandum prior to 
launch of the scheme [:]]” 
 
77 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 14-07-2026. 
78 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 24.01.2022 
79 Substituted for the words and symbols “ and (3) shall not apply to large value fund for accredited inves tors” by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2026, w.e.f. 14-07-2026.  
80 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. 
81 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021.

[Page 25]
(4) 82[The manner of calculating the tenure of a close ended scheme of an Alternative 
Investment Fund, including the manner of modification of the tenure, may be specified 
by the Board from time to time.] 
(5) Extension of the tenure of the close ended Alternative Investment Fund may be permitted 
up to two years subject to approval of two -thirds of the unit holders by value of their 
investment in the Alternative Investment Fund 83[:] 
84[Provided that a 85[Accredited Investors only fund]  may be permitted to extend its 
tenure up to five years subject to the approval of two-thirds of the unit holders by value of 
their investment in the 86[Accredited Investors only fund]: 
Provided further that the extension in tenure of any existing scheme of 87[Accredited 
Investors only fund] shall be subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time.] 
(6) 88[In the absence of consent of unit holders under sub-regulation (5) or upon expiry of the 
extended tenure, the Alternative Investment Fund or the scheme of the Alternative 
Investment Fund shall be wound up in accordance with Regulation 29 of these 
regulations.]  
Listing. 
                                                      
82 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. 
83 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
84 Substituted for “ Provided that larg e value funds for accredited investors may be permitted to extend its tenure 
beyond two years, subject to terms of the contribution agreement, other fund documents and such conditions as may 
be specified by the Board from time to time. ” by the Securities a nd Exchange Board of India  (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 07-08-2024. 
85 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19-11-2025. Prior to the substitution, it read as “large value fund for accredited investors”. 
86 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19-11-2025. Prior to the substitution, it read as “large value fund for accredited investors”. 
87 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19 -11-2025. Prior to the substitution, it read as “ a large value fund for accredited 
investors”. 
88 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (6) read as follows: 
“(6) In the absence of consent of unit holders, the Alternative Investment Fund shall fully liquidate within one year 
following expiration of the fund tenure or extended tenure.”

[Page 26]
14. (1) Units of close ended Alternative Investment Fund may be l isted on stock exchange 
subject to a minimum tradable lot of one crore rupees. 
(2) Listing of Alternative Investment Fund units shall be permitted only after final close of 
the fund or scheme. 
General Investment Conditions.  
15. (1) Investments by all categories o f Alternative Investment Funds shall be subject to the 
following conditions:- 
(a) Alternative Investment Fund may invest in securities of companies incorporated 
outside India subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the Board from time to time; 
      (b)  89[***] 
90[(c) Category I and II of Alternative Investment Funds shall invest not more than twenty 
five per cent of the investable funds in an Investee Company directly or through 
investment in the units of other Alternative Investment Funds 91[:] 
92[Provided that large value funds for accredited investors of Category I and II may 
invest up to fifty percent of the investable funds in an investee company directly or 
through investment in the units of other Alternative Investment Funds;] 
                                                      
89 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds ) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09 -09-2025. Prior to its omission, clause (b) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 15 read as 
under:  
“The  terms  of  Co -investment  in  an  investee  company  by  a  Manager  or  Sponsor  or  co -investor,  shall  not  
be  more  favourable  than  the  terms  of  investment  of  the  Alternative Investment Fund:  
Provided that the terms of exit from the Co -investment in an investee company including the timing of  exit  shall  be  
identical  to  the  terms  applicable  to  that  of  exit  of  the  Alternative Investment Fund: 
Provided further that the above proviso shall be applicable only for co -investment made from the date of coming 
into force of this regulation;”  
90 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange B oard of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its substitution clauses (c) and (d) read as under:  
“(c) Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds shall invest not more than twenty five p ercent of the 
*[investable funds] in one Investee Company; 
(d) Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall invest not more than ten percent of the *[investable funds] 
in one Investee Company” 
* Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus”.  
91 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  Securities and Exchange Board of India  
(Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021.

[Page 27]
93[(d) Category III Alternative Investment Funds shall invest not more than ten per cent of 
the investable funds in an Investee Company, directly or through investment in units 
of other Alternative Investment Funds and the large value funds for accredited 
investors of Category III Alternative Investment Funds may invest up to twenty per 
cent of the investable funds in an Investee Company, directly or through investment 
in units of other Alternative Investment Funds: 
Provided that for investment in listed equity of an Investee Company, Category III 
Alternative Investment Funds may calculate the investment limit of ten per cent of 
either the investable funds or the net asset value of the scheme and large value funds 
for accredited investors of Category III Alternative Investment Funds may calculate 
the investment limit of twenty per cent of either the investable funds or the net asset 
value of the scheme, subject to the conditions specified by the Board from time to 
time;] 
 94[(da) Alternative Investment Funds which are authorised under the fund documents to 
invest in units of Alternative Investment Funds shall not offer their units for 
subscription to other Alternative Investment Funds;] 
                                                                                                                                                                           
92 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
93 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 16-03-2022. Prior to its substitution clause (d) read as under – 
“*[(d) Category  III  Alternative  Investment  Funds  shall  invest  not  more  than  ten per  cent  of the  net  asset  
value  in listed equity of an Investee  Company and shall invest not more  than ten  per  cent  of  the  investable  
funds  in  securities  other  than  listed  equity  of  an  Investee Company, directly or through investment in units of 
other Alternative Investment Funds: 
Provided  that  large  value  funds  for  accredited  investors  of  Category  III  Alternative Investment Funds may 
invest up to twenty per cent of the net asset value in listed equity of an  Investee  Company  and  may  invest  up  to  
twenty  per cent  of  the  investable  funds  in securities other than listed equity of an Investee Company, directly or 
through investment in units of other Alternative Investment Funds;” 
*Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative I nvestment Funds) (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f 09-11-2021. Prior to its substitution clause (d) read as under – 
“(d) Category III of Alternative Investment Funds shall invest not more than ten per cent of the investable funds in 
an Investee Company directly or through investment in units of other Alternative Investment Funds:  
Provided  that  large  value  funds  for accredited  investors  of  Category  III  may  invest  up  to  twenty  percent  of  
the investable  funds  in  an  investee  compan y  directly  or  through  investment  in  units  of  other  Alternative  
Investment Funds;” 
94Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021.

[Page 28]
95[(e) Alternative Investment Fund shall not invest except with the approval of seventy five 
percent of investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund 
in - 
(a) associates; or 
(b) units of Alternative Investment Funds managed or sponsored by its Manager, 
Sponsor or associates of its Manager or Sponsor;] 
96 [(ea) Except with the approval of seventy five percent of the investors by value of 
their investment in the scheme of Alternative Investment Fund and subject to the 
conditions specified by the Board, a scheme of an Alt ernative Investment Fund shall 
not buy or sell investments, from or to - 
(a) associates; or 
(b) schemes  of  Alternative  Investment  Funds  managed  or  sponsored  by  its  
Manager, Sponsor or associates of its Manager or Sponsor; or 
(c) an investor who has committed to invest at least fifty percent of the corpus of the 
scheme of Alternative Investment Fund: 
Provided that while obtaining approval of the investors, the investor specified under 
sub-clause (c) who has committed to invest at least fifty percen t of the corpus of the 
scheme of Alternative Investment Fund and is buying or selling the investment, from 
or to, the Alternative Investment Fund, shall be excluded from the voting process.] 
97[(f) Un -invested portion of the investable funds and divestment proceeds pending 
distribution to investors may be invested in liquid mutual funds or bank deposits or 
other liquid assets of higher quality such as Treasury bills, Triparty Repo Dealing 
                                                      
95 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its substitution clauses (e) read as under –  
“(e) Alternative Investment Fund shall not invest in associates except w ith the approval of seventy five percent of 
investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund;” 
96 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
97 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(f) Un-invested portion of the *[investable funds] may be invested in liquid mutual funds or bank deposits or other 
liquid assets of higher quality such as Treasury bills, CBLOs, Commercial Papers, Certificates of Deposits, etc. till 
deployment of funds as per the investment objective;” 
* Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus”.

[Page 29]
and Settlement, Commercial Papers, Certificates of Deposits, etc. till  the deployment 
of funds as per the investment objective or the distribution of the funds to investors 
as per the terms of the fund documents, as applicable;] 
(g)  Alternative Investment Fund may act as Nominated Investor as specified in clause (b) 
of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 106N of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; 
98[(h) Investment by Category I and Category II Alternative Investment Funds in the shares 
of entities listed o n institutional trading platform after the commencement of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2015 shall be deemed to be 
investment in ‘unlisted securities’ for the purpose of these regulations.] 
99[(i) Alternative Investment Funds shall hold their investments in dematerialised form, 
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time:  
Provided that the requirement under clause (i) of sub -regulation (1) shall not apply 
to: 
(a) investments by Alternative Investment Funds in such type of instruments which 
are not eligible for dematerialisation, 
(b) investments held by a liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Funds 
that are not available in the dematerialised form, and 
(c) such other investments by Alternative Investment Funds and such other schemes 
of Alternative Investment Funds as may be specified by the Board from time to 
time.] 
(2) Notwithstanding the conditions as specified in sub -regulation (1), the Board may specify 
additional requirements or criteria for Alternative Investment Funds or for a specific 
category thereof. 
Conditions for Category I Alternative Investment Funds. 
                                                      
98 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2015, w.e.f. 14.08.2015 
99 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 05-01-2024.

[Page 30]
16. (1) The following investment conditions shall apply to all Category I  Alternative Investment 
Funds:- 
100[(a) Category I Alternative Investment Fund shall invest in investee companies, 
venture capital undertakings, special purpose vehicles, limited liability partnerships  
101[,] in units of other Category I Alternative Investment Funds of the same sub category 
102[, or in units of Category II Alternative Investment Funds as specified in this 
regulation]]; 
103[(aa) Category I Alternative Investment Funds may engage in hedging, including 
credit default swaps in terms of the conditions a s may be specified by the Board from 
time to time.] 
(b) 104[***] 
105[(c) Category I Alternative Investment Funds shall not borrow funds directly or 
indirectly or engage in any leverage for the purpose of making investments or 
otherwise, except for borrowing fu nds to meet temporary funding requirements and 
                                                      
100 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendme nt) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its substitution, clause (a) read as follows - 
“(a) Category I Alternative Investment Fund shall invest in investee companies or venture capital undertaking or in 
special purpose vehicles or in limited lia bility partnerships or in units of other Alternative Investment Funds as 
specified in these regulations;” 
101 Substituted for the word “or” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
102 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
103 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f  09-01-2023. 
104 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its omission clause (b) read as follows:  
(b) Fund of Catego ry I Alternative Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I Alternative  Investment 
Funds of same sub-category: 
Provided that they shall only invest in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of Funds:  
Provided further that the inves tment conditions as specified in sub -regulations (2), (3), (4) or (5) shall not be 
applicable to investments by such funds. 
105 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 07-08-2024. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(c) Category I Alternative Investment Funds shall not borrow funds directly or indirectly or engage in any leverage 
except for meeting temporary funding requirements for not more than thirty days, on not more than four occasions in 
a year and not more than ten percent of the investable funds: 
Provided that Category I Alternative Investment Funds may create encumbrance on equity of investee company, 
which is in the business of development, operation or management of projects in any of the infrastructure sub -
sectors listed in the Harmonised Master List of Infrastructure issued by the Central Government, only for the 
purpose of borrowing by such investee company and subject to such conditions as may be spe cified by the Board 
from time to time.”

[Page 31]
day-to-day operational requirements for not more than thirty days, on not more than 
four occasions in a year and not more than ten percent of the investable funds and 
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that Category I Alternative Investment Funds may create encumbrance on 
equity of investee company, which is in the business of development, operation or 
management of projects in any of the infrastructure sub-sectors listed in the Harmonised 
Master List of Infrastructure issued by the Central Government, only for the purpose of 
borrowing by such investee company and subject to such conditions as may be specified 
by the Board from time to time.] 
(2) The following inv estment conditions shall apply to venture capital funds in addition to 
conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):-  
106[(a) at least seventy-five percent of the investable funds shall be invested in unlisted 
equity shares or equity linked instruments of a v enture capital undertaking or in 
companies listed or proposed to be listed on a SME exchange or SME segment of an 
exchange: 
Provided that the investment conditions specified in clause (a) shall be achieved by 
the fund by the end of its life cycle.] 
(b) 107[***] 
                                                      
106 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(a) at least two -thirds of t he *[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted equity shares or equity linked 
instruments of a venture capital undertaking or in companies listed or proposed to be listed on a SME exchange or 
SME segment of an exchange;” 
* Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Am endment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus” 
107 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the omission, it read as- 
“(b) not more than one-third  of the *[investable funds] shall be invested in: 
(i) subscription to initial public offer of a venture capital undertaking whose shares are proposed to be listed;  
(ii) debt or debt instrument of a venture capital undertaking in which the fund has already made an investment by 
way of equity or contribution towards partnership interest;  
(iii) preferential allotment, including through qualified institutional placement, of equ ity shares or equity linked 
instruments of a listed company subject to lock in period of one year; 
(iv) the equity shares or equity linked instruments of a financially weak company or a sick industrial company whose 
shares are listed. 
Explanation.– For the purpose of these regulations, “a financially weak company” means a company, which has at 
the end of the previous financial year accumulated losses, which has resulted in erosion of more than fifty percent 
but less than hundred percent of its net worth as at the beginning of the previous financial year.

[Page 32]
(c) such funds may enter into an agreement with merchant banker to subscribe to the 
unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process of 
market making under 108[Chapter  IX  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2018 and the 
provisions of clause (a) of sub - regulation (2)] shall not apply in case of acquisition 
or sale of securities pursuant to such subscription or market making.  
109[(d)  such funds shall be exempt from sub -regulations (1) and (2) of regulation 3 and 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of  Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 in respect of investment in 
companies listed on the SME exchange or SME segment of an exchange pursuant to 
due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:  
(i) the fund shall disclose any trading in securities pursuant to such due -
diligence, within two trading days of such trading, to the stock exch anges 
where the investee company is listed; 
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of 
investment.] 
(3) The following conditions shall apply to SME Funds in addition to conditions laid down in 
sub-regulation (1):- 
                                                                                                                                                                           
(v) special purpose vehicles which are created by the fund for the purpose of facilitating or promoting investment in 
accordance with these regulations: 
Provided that the investment conditions and restricti ons stipulated in clause (a) and clause (b) of sub -regulation (2) 
shall be achieved by the fund by the end of its life cycle.” 
* Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Ame ndment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus” 
108 Substituted for “Chapter  XB  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and the provisions of clause (a) and clause (b) of sub -regulation (2)” 
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
109 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(d) such funds shall be exempt from regulation 3 and 3A of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 in respect of investment in companies listed on SME Exchange or SME segment 
of an exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:  
(i) the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such due -diligence, within two 
working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the stock exchanges where the investee company is listed;  
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of investment.”

[Page 33]
(a) atleast seventy five percent of the 110[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted 
securities or partnership interest of venture capital undertakings or investee 
companies which are SMEs or in companies listed or proposed to be listed on SME 
exchange or SME segment  of an exchange 111[or in units of Category II Alternative 
Investment Funds which invest primarily in such venture capital undertakings or 
investee companies]; 
(b) such funds may enter into an agreement with merchant banker to subscribe to the 
unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process of 
market making under 112[Chapter  IX  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018]; 
113[(c) such funds  shall  be  ex empt  from sub -regulations (1) and (2) of regulation 3 and 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 of the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations, 2015 in  respect  of investment in 
companies listed on the SM E exchange or SME segment of an exchange pursuant to 
due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:  
(i) the fund shall disclose any trading in securities pursuant to such due -diligence, 
within two trading days of such trading, to the sto ck exchanges where the 
investee company is listed; 
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one  year from the date of  
investment.] 
                                                      
110 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus” 
111 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
112 Substituted for “ Chapter XB of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
113 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(c) such funds shall be exempt from regulation 3 and 3A of Securities  and Exchange  Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 in respect of investment in companies listed on SME Exchange or SME 
segment of an exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:  
(i) the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such due -diligence, within two 
working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the stock exchanges where the investee company is listed;  
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of investment.”

[Page 34]
(4) The following conditions shall apply to social 114[impact] funds in addition to the 
conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):- 
(a) 115[at least seventy -five percent of the investable funds shall be invested in unlisted 
securities or partnership interest of social ventures or in units of social ventures or in 
securities of social enterprises: 
Provided that an existing social impact fund may invest the remaining investable 
funds in securities of not for profit organizations registered or listed on a social stock 
exchange with the prior consent of atleast 75% of the investors by value of their 
investment;] 
(b) such funds may accept grants, provided that such utilization of such grants sh all be 
restricted to clause (a) 116[:] 
117[Provided that the amount of grant that may be accepted by the fund from any 
person shall not be less than 118[ten lakh rupees]: 
119[Provided further that the minimum amount of grant shall not apply to accredited 
investors:] 
Provided further  that no profits or gains shall accrue to the provider of such 
grants.] 
120[(ba) Notwithstanding the provisions of clauses (a) and (b), a social impact fund or 
schemes of a social imp act fund launched exclusively for a not for profit organization 
registered or listed on a social stock exchange, shall be permitted to deploy or invest 
                                                      
114 Substituted for the word “venture” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
115 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. Prior to the substitution, clause (a) of sub -regulation (4) of regulation 16 read as 
under:  
“atleast seventy five percent of the *[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted securities or partnership interest 
of social ventures.” 
* Substituted for “corpus” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-9-2013. 
116 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the symbol “.” 
117 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 
118 Substituted for the words “ twenty five lakh rupees ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022.  
119 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
120 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022.

[Page 35]
hundred percent of the investable funds in the securities of not for profit organizations 
registered or listed on a social stock exchange.] 
(c) such funds may give grants to social ventures 121[or social enterprises], provided that 
appropriate disclosure is made in the placement memorandum. 
(d) 122[***] 
(5) The following conditions shall apply to Infrastructure Funds in addition to conditions laid 
down in sub-regulation (1):- 
(a) atleast seventy five percent of the 123[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted 
securities or units or partnership interest of venture capital undertaking or investee 
companies or special purpose vehicles, which are engaged in or formed for the 
purpose of operating, developing or holding infrastructure projects  124[or in units of 
Category II Alternative Investment Funds which invest primarily in such venture 
capital undertakings or investee companies or special purpose vehicles]; 
(b) notwithstanding clause (a) of sub-regulation (5), such funds may also invest in listed 
securitized debt instruments or listed debt securities of investee companies or special 
purpose vehicles, which are engaged in or formed f or the purpose of operating, 
developing or holding infrastructure projects. 
 
Conditions for Category II Alternative Investment Funds. 
17. The following investment conditions shall ap ply to Category II Alternative Investment 
Funds:- 
                                                      
121 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
122 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w. e.f 25.07.2022. Prior to its omission, clause (d) of sub -regulation (4) of regulation 16 read as 
under: 
“such funds may accept muted returns for their investors i.e. they may accept returns on their investments which 
may be lower than prevailing returns for similar investments.” 
123 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus” 
124 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative I nvestment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021.

[Page 36]
125[(a) Category II Alternativ e Investment Funds shall invest in investee companies or in the 
units of Category I or other Category II Alternative Investment Funds as may be 
disclosed in the Placement Memorandum; 
Explanation - Category II Alternative Investment Fund shall invest primar ily in unlisted 
securities and/or listed debt securities (including securitised debt instruments) which are 
rated ‘A’ or below by a credit rating agency registered with the Board, directly or through 
investment in units of other Alternative Investment Fund s, in the manner as may be 
specified by the Board; ] 
(b) 126[***] 
127[(c) Category I I Alternative Investment Funds shall not borrow funds directly or 
indirectly or engage in any leverage for the purpose of making investments or 
otherwise, except for borrowing funds to meet temporary funding requirements and 
day-to-day operational requirements for not more than thirty days, on not more than 
four occasions in a year and not more than ten percent of the investable funds and 
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that Category I I Alternative Investment Funds may create 
encumbrance on equity of investee company, which is in the business of 
development, operation or management of projects in any of the infrastructure 
                                                      
125 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 23-05-2025. Prior to its substitution, clause (a) read as follows -  
“(a) Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall invest in investee companies or in the units of Category I or 
other Category II Alternative Investment Funds as may be disclosed in the placement memorandum;  
Explanation.– Category II Alte rnative Investment Fund shall invest primarily in unlisted companies directly or 
through investment in units of other Alternative Investment Funds;” 
126 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its omission, clause (b) read as follows -  
“(b) Fund of Category II Alternative Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I or Category II Alternative 
Investment Funds: 
Provided that they shall only invest in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of Funds.”  
127 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 07-08-2024. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(c) Category II Alternative Investment Funds may not borrow funds directly or indirectly and shall not engage in 
leverage except for meeting temporary funding requirements for not more than thirty days, not more than four 
occasions in a year and not more than ten percent of the investable funds: 
 Provided that Category II Alternative Investment Funds may create encumbrance on equity of investee company, 
which is in the business of development, operation or management of projects in any of the infrastru cture sub -
sectors listed in the Harmonised Master List of Infrastructure issued by the Central Government, only for the 
purpose of borrowing by such investee company and subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time.”

[Page 37]
sub-sectors listed in the Harmonised Master List of Infrastructure issued by the 
Central Government, only for the purpose of borrowing by such investee 
company and subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from 
time to time.] 
(d) Notwithstanding clause  (c), Category II Alternative Investment Funds may engage in 
hedging, subject to guidelines as specified by the Board from time to time; 
128[(da) Category II Alternative Investment Funds may buy or sell credit default swaps in 
terms of the conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
(e) Category II Alternative  Investment Funds may enter into an agreement with merchant 
banker to subscribe to the unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver 
securities in the process  of market making under 129[Chapter  IX  of  the  Securities  and  
Exchange  Board  of  India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018].  
130[(f) Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall be  exempt  from  sub-regulations (1) and 
(2) of regulation 3 and sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 of the Securities  and  Exchange  
Board  of  India (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations, 2015  in  respect  of 
investment in companies listed on the SME exchange or SME segment of an exc hange 
pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:  
(i) the fund shall disclose any trading in securities pursuant to such due -diligence, 
within two trading days of such trading, to the stock exchanges where the investee 
company is listed; 
                                                      
128 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f  09-01-2023. 
129 Substituted for “Chapter XB of the Securities and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009”  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
130 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth A mendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(c) Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall be exempt from regulation 3 and 3A of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulat ions, 1992 in respect of investment in companies listed on 
SME Exchange or SME segment of an exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the 
following conditions:  
(i) the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pur suant to such due -diligence, within two 
working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the stock exchanges where the investee company is listed;  
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of investment.”

[Page 38]
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one  year from the date of  
investment.] 
131[Conditions for co-investment by Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds. 
17A. (1) Co-investment by investors of Category I or Cat egory II Alt ernative Investment Fund 
shall be through a co -investment scheme launched under these regulations or through a Co - 
investment Portfolio Manager as specified under the Securities and Exchange Board of India  
(Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020. 
(2) A shel f placement memorandum shall be filed with the  Board, in the manner as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time, through a mercha nt banker along with the fee as 
specified in Second Schedule to these regulations, prior t o the co -investment opportunity being 
offered to the investors of Category I or Category II Alternative Investment Fund, through co-
investment scheme. 
(3) A separate co -investment scheme shall be laun ched for each co -investment, in accordance 
with the shelf placement memorandum filed with the Board: 
Provided that an Angel fund shall not launch a co-investment scheme. 
(4) Only accredited investors of the Category I or Category  II Alternative Investment Fund shall 
be eligible to invest in a co-investment scheme. 
(5) Each co-investment scheme shall invest in only one investee company. 
(6) A co-investment scheme shall not invest in units of Alternative Investment Funds. 
(7) Co-investment through a co-investment scheme shall be carried out in the manner and subject 
to the conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(8) The terms of co-investment in an investee company by a M anager or Sponsor or Co -investor 
or a co -investment scheme, shall not be mo re favourable than the terms of investment of the 
Alternative Investment Fund: 
                                                      
131 Inserted by t he Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025.

[Page 39]
Provided that the timing of exit from the co-investment in an investee company shall be identical 
to the exit of the scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund from the investment  in the investee 
company. 
(9) The co -investment scheme shall be wound up on e xit from the co -investment in terms  of 
these regulations. 
(10) The requirements under clauses (b) and (d) of regulation 10, sub-regulation (2) of regulation 
11, sub-regulations (2), (3), (4) and (5) of regula tion 12, regulation 13, clauses (a), (c), (da), (g) 
and (h) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 15, regulation 16 and regulation 17 shall not apply to a 
co-investment scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund.] 
Conditions for Category III Alternative Investment Funds. 
18. The following investment conditions shall apply to Category III Alternative Investment 
Funds:- 
132[(a) Category III Alternative Investment Funds may invest in securities of listed or unlisted 
investee companies, derivatives, units of other Alternative Investment Funds or complex or 
structured products;]   
133[(aa) Category III Alternative Investment Funds may deal in goods received in delivery 
against physical settlement of commodity derivatives;] 
134[(ab) Category III Alternative Investment Funds may buy or sell credit default swaps in 
terms of the conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 (b) 135[***] 
                                                      
132 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its substitution, clause (a) read as follows -  
“(a) Category III Alternative Investment Funds may invest in securities of listed or unlisted investee companies or 
derivatives or complex or structured products;” 
133 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 10-05-2019. 
134 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f  09-01-2023. 
135 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its omission, clause (b) read as follows -  
“(b)  *[Fund of Category III ] Alternative Investment F unds may invest in units of Category I or Category II 
Alternative Investment Funds: 
Provided that they invest solely in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of Funds”

[Page 40]
(c) Category III Alternative Investment Funds may engage in leverage or borrow subject to 
consent from the investors in the fund and subject to a maximum limit, as may be 
specified by the Board: 
Provided that such funds shall disclose information regarding the overall level of 
leverage employed, the level of leverage arising from borrowing of cash, the level of 
leverage arising from position held in derivatives or in any complex product and the main 
source of leverage in their fund to the investors and to the Board periodically, as may be 
specified by the Board. 
(d) Category III Alternative Investment Funds shall be regulated through issuance of 
directions regarding areas such as operation al standards, conduct of business rules, 
prudential requirements, restrictions on redemption and conflict of interest as may be 
specified by the Board.  
Other Alternative Investment Fund. 
19. The Board may lay down framework for Alternative Investment Funds ot her than the Funds 
falling in the categories specified in these regulations. 
 
136[CHAPTER III -A 
ANGEL FUNDS 
Definitions. 
19A. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined 
herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions and 
variations shall be construed accordingly,- 
(1) “angel fund” means a sub -category of 137[***] Category I- Alternative Investment Fund that 
raises funds from 138[accredited investors] and invests in accordance wi th the provisions of this 
Chapter. 
                                                                                                                                                                           
*Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the words and symbol “Fund of Category II”. 
136 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013

[Page 41]
139[(2) "angel investor" means an accredited investor, or  key management personnel of an angel 
fund or its manager, who invests in an angel fund.]  
 140[(3) "related party" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (zb) of sub -
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and E xchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.]  
                                                                                                                                                                           
137 The words “Venture Capital Fund unde r” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 09-09-2025.  
138 Substituted for the words “angel investors” by the Securities and Exchange Bo ard of India  (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
139 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as follows -  
“(2) "angel investor" means any person who proposes to invest in an angel fund and satisfies one of the following 
conditions, namely, 
(a) an individual investor who has net tangible assets of at lea st two crore rupees excluding value of his principal 
residence, and who: 
(i) has early stage investment experience, or 
(ii) has experience as a serial entrepreneur, or 
(iii) is a senior management professional with at least ten years of experience;  
       Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, 'early stage investment experience' shall mean prior experience in 
investing in start -up or emerging or early -stage ventures and 'serial entrepreneur' shall mean a person who has 
promoted or co-promoted more than one start-up venture. 
(b) a body corporate with a net worth of at least ten crore rupees; or 
(c) an Alternative Investment Fund registered under these regulations or a Venture Capital Fund registered under the 
SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996.” 
 
140 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as follows – 
(3) "company with family connection" means: 
a. if the angel investor is an individual, 
i. any company which is promoted by such an individual or his relative; or 
ii. any company where the individual or his relative is a director; or 
iii. any company where the person or his relative has control , or shares or voting rights which entitle them to 
fifteen percent or more of the shares or voting rights in the company. 
Explanation I: For the purpose of this clause, "relative" means a person as defined under sub -section 77 of section 
2 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
Explanation II: For the purpose of this clause, "control" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under sub -
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. 
b. if the angel investor is a body corporate, 
i. any company which is a subsidiary or a holding company of the investor;  
or 
ii. any company which is part of the same group or under the same management of the investor; or  
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, "part of the same group" and "under the same management" shall have 
the same meaning as assigned to it under regulation 23 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009. 
iii. any company where the body corporate or its directors/partners have control, or shares or voting rights which 
entitle them to fifteen percent or more of the shares or voting rights in the company.  
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, "con trol" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under sub -
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.”

[Page 42]
Applicability. 
19B. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to angel funds and 141[their managers, 
sponsors, angel investors and investments of angel funds:] 
142[Provided that the provisions of the Securities and Excha nge Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 shall apply to angel funds registered 
prior to the notification of the Securit ies and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, in the manner as  may be specified by the 
Board.] 
(2) All other provisions of these regulations, except clauses (a) , (b), (c), (d) and (f) of  regulation 
10, regulation 12, regulation 14, clauses (a), (c) 143[, (da)]  and (e) of sub -regulation (1) of  
regulation 15, 144[clause (a) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 16 ] and sub -regulation (2) of  
regulation 16, 145[regulation 17, regulation 18,] 146[sub-regulation (21) of regulation 20]  and the 
guidelines and circulars issued under these regulations, unless the context  otherwise requires or 
repugnant to the provisions of this Chapter, shall apply to angel funds, their  sponsors and 
managers and angel investors. 
147[Explanation: For the purpose of this sub -regulation, the pro visions which are applicable to a 
scheme of an alternative investment fund, shall be applicabl e to the angel fund at the fund level, 
unless specifically stated otherwise.] 
Registration of angel funds. 
                                                      
141 Substituted for the words and symbols “scheme s launched by such angel funds.” by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
142 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
 
143 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
144 Substituted for the words and symbols “ clause (b) of  sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16 ” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09 -09-
2025. 
145 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fun ds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
146 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 18-11-2024. 
147 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025.

[Page 43]
19C. (1) An applicant may apply for registration as an angel fund in accordance with the  
provisions of Chapter II of these Regulations. 
(2) 148[***] 
Investment in angel funds. 
19D. 149[(1) Angel funds shall raise funds only f rom accredited investors by way of issue of 
units, in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that the key management personnel of an angel fund or its manager may invest in the 
angel fund.]  
150[(2) No minimum value of invest ment shall be applicable for investment in an angel fund by 
an angel investor.]  
151[***] 
 152[(3)] Angel fund shall raise funds through private placement by issue of information  
memorandum or placement memorandum, by whatever name called. 
153[Provided that the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 shall apply to the Angel Fund , 
if it is formed as a company.] 
154[(4) Such placement memorandum shall be filed with th e Board in the specified format 
155[***] while filing the application for registration as an angel fund. 
                                                      
148 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (2) of regulation 19C read as under:  
“An Alternative Investment Fund already registered under t hese regulations, which has not made any investments, 
may apply for conversion of its catego ry into an angel fund under the provisions of this Chapter and the provisions 
of Chapter II shall apply as they apply to a fresh registration.” 
149 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows – 
“(1) Angel funds shall only raise funds by way of issue of units to angel investors. ” 
150 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as follows – 
“(2) An angel fund shall have a corpus of at least five crore rupees.” 
151 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (3) read as follows – 
“(3) Angel funds shall accept, up to a maximum period of five years, an investment of not less than twenty five lakh 
rupees from an angel investor.” 
152 Sub-regulation (4) renumbered as (3) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
153 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investm ent Funds)(Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018.

[Page 44]
156[***] 
(6) An angel fund shall on -board at least five accredited inves tors before declaring its first 
close in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(7) If the angel fund fails to declare the first close of the fund in the specified manner, it 
shall be required to refile the placement memorandum wit h the Board for circulation and 
soliciting funds from angel investors, by paying the requisite fee under the Second Schedule.] 
Schemes. 
157[19E. An angel fund shall not launch any schemes for soliciting funds from angel investors or 
making any investments.] 
Investment by Angel Funds. 
19F. 158[(1) Angel funds shall invest only in startups, which are not promoted or sponsored by or 
related to a corporate group whose group turnover exceeds three hundred crore rupees: 
                                                                                                                                                                           
154 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
155 Omitted the words “ through a merchant banker ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 14-07-2026. 
156 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026, w.e.f. 14-07-2026. Prior to its omission, regulation 19D(5) read as under: 
“(5) The Board may communicate its comments, if any, to the merchant banker and the merchant banker shall 
ensure that the comments are incorporated in the placement memorandum prio r to its circulation to angel investors 
by the angel fund for soliciting funds.” 
 
157 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, regulation 19E read as follows – 
“19E. (1) The angel fund may launch schemes subject to filing of a term sheet with the Board, containing material 
information regarding the scheme, in the format and time period as may be specified by the Board.  
(2) No scheme of the angel fund shall have more than two hundred angel investors. 
Provided that the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 shall apply to the Angel Fund, if it is formed as a 
company.” 
158 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) of regulation 19F read as follows – 
“(1) Angel funds shall invest in startups which: 
(c) are not promoted or sponsored by or rel ated to an industrial group whose group turnover exceeds three hundred 
crore rupees; and 
Explanation I: For the purpose of this clause, "industrial group" shall include a group of body corporates with the 
same promoter(s)/promoter group, a parent company a nd its subsidiaries, a group of body corporates in which the 
same person/ group of persons exercise control, and a group of body corporates comprised of associates/ 
subsidiaries/ holding companies. 
Explanation II: For the purpose of this clause, "group tur nover" shall mean combined total revenue of the industrial 
group. 
(d) are not companies with family connection with any of the angel investors who are investing in the company. ”

[Page 45]
Provided that angel funds may make additional investments in their existing investee companies, 
which are no longer start -ups, subject to the conditions as may be specified by the Board from 
time to time. 
Explanation I: For the purpo se of this clause, "corporate group" shall include a group of body 
corporates with the same promoter(s)/promoter group, a parent company and its subsidiaries, a 
group of body corporates in which the same person/ group of persons exercise control, and a 
group of body corporates consisting of associates/ subsidiaries/ holding companies. 
Explanation II: For the purpose of this clause, "group turn over" shall mean combined total 
revenue of the corporate group.] 
  
 
159[(2) Investment made by an angel fund in any investee company shall not be less than ten lakh 
rupees and shall not exceed twenty five crores rupees.]  
 160[(3) Investment by an angel fund in an investee company sha ll be subject to lock -in period as 
may be specified by the Board.] 
 (4) Angel funds shall not invest in associates. 
161[(5) Each investment of an angel fund in an investee compa ny shall have contribution from at 
least two accredited investors.] 
162[(6) Angel funds shall not accept contribution for investment in an in vestee company, from 
those angel investors who are a related party to such investee company.] 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
159 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) of regulation 19F read as follows – 
“Investment by an angel fund in any venture capital undertaking shall not be less than twenty five lakh  rupees and 
shall not exceed ten crores rupees.” 
160 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (3) of regulation 19F read as follows – 
“(3) Investment by an angel fund in the venture capital undertaking shall be locked -in for a period of one year.” 
161 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (5) of regulation 19F read as follows – 
“(5) Angel funds shall not invest more than twenty -five per cent of the total investments under all its schemes in one 
venture capital undertaking: 
Provided that the compliance to this sub-regulation shall be ensured by the Angel Fund at the end of its tenure.”

[Page 46]
163[(7)]164[ An angel fund may also invest in the securities of companies incorporated outside 
India subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India and the Board from time to time.] 
Obligations of Sponsors and Managers of Angel Fund. 
19G. 165[***] 
166[(1)] The manager or sponsor shall have a continuing interest in 167[each investment of] the 
angel fund of not less than  168[half percent of the amount inve sted or fifty thousand rupees, 
whichever is higher,] and such interest shall not be through the waiver of management fees. 
169[(2)] 170[The manager shall accept contribution from an ang el investor for investing in an 
investee company only after obtaining approval from the angel investor for such investment.] 
171[(3) The manager shall disclose and offer each investme nt opportunity to all the angel 
investors of the angel fund. 
                                                                                                                                                                           
162 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
163 Sub-regulation (6) renumbered as (7) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
164 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investm ent Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 04-01-2017. 
165 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (1) of regulation 19G read as follows – 
“(1) The sponsor shall ensure that the angel investors satisfy the conditions specified in sub -regulation (2) of 
regulation 19A.” 
166 Sub-regulation (2) renumbered as (1) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative I nvestment 
Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
167 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
168 Substituted for the words and symbo ls “two and half percent of the corpus or fifty thousand rupees,whichever is 
lesser,” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
169 Sub-regulation (3) renumbered as ( 2) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
170 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09 -09-2025. Pr ior to its substitution, the text of sub -regulation (3) re -numbered as sub -
regulation (2) of regulation 19G read as follows – 
“The manager of the angel fund shall obtain an undertaking from every angel investor proposing to m ake investment 
in a venture capital undertaking, confirming his approval for such an investment, prior to making such an 
investment.” 
171 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025.

[Page 47]
(4) The manager shall disclose a defined methodology in the placement memora ndum of the 
angel fund, for the purpose of allocating the inves tment among angel investors who provide 
approval for such investment, in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(5) The manager shall accept contributions for investment in an investee company from the angel 
investors who provide approval for the investment, in accordance with the  methodology 
disclosed in the placement memorandum of the angel fund. 
(6) The investors of an angel fund shall have rights in an investment of the angel fund and in the 
distribution of proceeds of the investment, pro -rata to their contribution to such investment, 
except in the cases as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(7) In case an angel fund offers an opportunity for investment in a n existing investee company or 
related party of an existing investee company,  the same shall be disclosed to the angel investors 
at the time of seeking their approval for making such investment.] 
Prohibition of Listing. 
19H. Units of angel funds shall not be listed on any recognised stock exchange.] 
 
172[CHAPTER III -B 
SPECIAL SITUATION FUNDS 
 
Definitions.  
19I. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined 
herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below and their cogn ate expressions and 
variations shall be construed accordingly,-  
 
(1) “resolution applicant” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Code, 2016; 
 
(2) “special situation asset” includes,-  
                                                      
172 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 24.01.2022

[Page 48]
(a) stressed loan available for acqui sition in terms of Clause 58 of Master Direction – 
Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021 as amended from time 
to time or as part of a resolution plan approved under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 
2016 or in terms of any o ther policy of the Reserve Bank of India or Government of India 
issued in this regard from time to time; 
 
(b) security receipts issued by an Asset Reconstruction Company registered with the Reserve 
Bank of India; 
 
(c) securities of investee companies,  
 
(i) whose stre ssed loans are available for acquisition in terms of Clause 58 of the 
Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021 
as amended from time to time or as part of a resolution plan approved under the 
Insolvency and Bank ruptcy Code, 2016 or in terms of any other policy of the Reserve 
Bank of India or Government of India issued in this regard from time to time; 
 
(ii) against whose borrowings, security receipts have been issued by an Asset 
Reconstruction Company registered with the Reserve Bank of India;  
 
(iii) whose borrowings are subject to corporate insolvency resolution process under 
Chapter II of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016;  
   
(iv) who have disclosed all the defaults relating to the payment of interest/ repayment 
of principal amount on loans from banks / financial institutions/ Systemically Important 
Non-Deposit taking Non -Banking Financial Companies/ Deposit taking Non -Banking 
Financial Companies and /or listed or unlisted debt securities in terms of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018 and such payment default is continuing for a period of at least ninety 
calendar days after the occurrence of such default:

[Page 49]
Provided that in case of sub -clauses (iii) and (iv), the credit rating of the financial 
instruments or credit instruments or borrowings of the company has been downgraded to 
“D” or equivalent;  
 
(d) Any other asset as may be specified by the Board from time to time;  
 
(3) “special situation fund” means a C ategory 1 Alternative Investment Fund that invests in 
special situation assets in accordance with its investment objectives and may act as a resolution 
applicant under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. 
 
Applicability.  
19J. (1) The provisions of th is Chapter shall apply to special situation funds and schemes 
launched by such special situation funds.  
 
(3) All other provisions of these regulations, except clauses (b) and (c) of regulation 10, 
clauses (a), (c) and (e) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 1 5, clause (a) of sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 16 and the guidelines and circulars issued under these regulations, unless the context 
otherwise requires or is repugnant to the provisions of this Chapter, shall apply to the special 
situation funds, the schemes of special situation funds and their sponsors and managers. 
  
Registration of special situation funds.  
19K. An applicant may apply for registration as a special situation fund in accordance with the 
provisions of Chapter II of these Regulations.  
 
 
Investment in special situation funds.  
19L. (1) Each scheme of a special situation fund shall have a corpus as may be specified by the 
Board.

[Page 50]
(2) The special situation fund shall accept from an investor, an investment of such value as 
may be specified by the Board.  
 
(3) The special situation fund shall not accept investments from any other Alternative 
Investment Fund other than a special situation fund. 
 
Investment by special situation funds. 
19M. (1) Special situation funds shall invest only in special situation assets and may act as  a 
resolution applicant under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016: 
 
Provided that the special situation fund shall not invest in,  
i. its associates; or 
ii. the units of any other Alternative Investment Fund other than the units of a  special 
situation fund; or 
iii. units of special situation funds managed or sponsored by its manager, sponsor or 
associates of its manager or sponsor. 
 
(2) Any investment by a special situation fund in the stressed loan acquired under clause 58 
of the Master Direc tion – Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021 
as amended from time to time shall be subject to lock -in period as may be specified by the 
Board.] 
 
 
 
173[CHAPTER III - C 
CORPORATE DEBT MARKET DEVELOPMENT FUND 
Applicability. 
                                                      
173 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023.

[Page 51]
19N. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply only to the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund. 
 
(2) All other provisions of these regulations, except the following provisions and the guidelines 
and circulars issued under these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires or is repugnant 
to the provisions of this Chapter, shall apply to the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund, 
its sponsor, manager, trustee and investors: 
i. sub regulation (2) of regulation 9; 
ii. clauses (a), (c), (d), and (f) of regulation 10; 
iii. sub regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 12;  
iv. sub regulations (1), (2), (3), (5) and (6) of regulation 13; 
v. regulations 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, Chapter III-A and III-B, 23;   
vi. sub regulation (1) of regulation 15;  
vii. sub regulation (15) of regulation 20; 
viii. clause (a), (b) and (c) of sub regulation (1) of regulation 29; 
ix. sub regulations (2),(3), (4) and (8) of regulation 29. 
 
Registration of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund. 
19O. (1) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall be constituted in t he form of a 
Trust and the instrument of Trust shall be in the form of a deed duly registered under the 
provisions of the Indian Registration Act, 1908. 
(2) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall apply for registration as an Alternative 
Investment Fund in accordance with the provisions of Chapter II of these regulations. 
(3) The placement memorandum of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall be filed 
with the Board.  
(4) The Board may communicate its comments, if any, to the Manager prior  to the launch of the 
fund and the Manager shall incorporate the comments in the placement memorandum prior to the 
launch of the fund. 
(5) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall be a close ended fund, with a tenure of 
fifteen years from the date of its first closing:

[Page 52]
Provided that the tenure may be extended with the prior approval of the Board. 
(6) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall be wound up with the prior approval of 
the Board. 
 
Investment in the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund. 
19P. (1) The units of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall be offered to the Asset 
Management Companies as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
Funds) Regulations, 1996 and the specified debt-oriented schemes of mutual funds. 
(2) The investment by the Asset Management Companies and the specified debt -oriented 
schemes of the mutual funds shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996. 
(3) The Manager or Sponsor shall have a continuing interest in the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund of not less than five crore rupees in the form of investment in the fund but 
such continuing interest shall not be through the waiver of management fees. 
 
Investment conditions for the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund. 
19Q. (1) During periods of market dislocation, the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund 
shall purchase corporate debt securities from the specified debt -oriented schemes of mutual 
funds which meet the following eligibility criteria:  
(a) corporate debt securities shall be listed and have an investment grade rating; 
(b) the residual maturity of such securities shall not exceed five years on the date of 
purchase; 
(c) securities where there is no ma terial possibility of default or adverse credit news or 
views. 
Explanation: For the purpose of sub regulation (1) of this regulation, the Board shall decide the 
trigger of market dislocation and its reversal based on the parameters as may be specified by t he 
Board.

[Page 53]
(2) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall purchase corporate debt securities in 
proportion to the contribution made in it at a mutual fund level and in accordance with detailed 
guidelines as may be approved by the Board. 
(3) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall hold eligible securities as mentioned in 
sub regulation (1) of this regulation, till maturity or sell the same in the secondary market upon 
reversal of market dislocation, in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time.   
(4) Other than market dislocation period, the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall 
invest in liquid and low -risk debt instruments and undertake any other activity related to 
corporate debt market, as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(5) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall buy corporate debt securities at fair 
price adjusted for liquidity risk, interest rate risk and credit risk but not at distress prices.  
(6) The sharing of loss by the sellers of corpora te debt securities to the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund during periods of market dislocation may be higher than their pro rata 
holding in the Alternative Investment Fund vis-à-vis other unit holders. 
(7) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall not invest in the securities of companies 
incorporated outside India. 
(8) Investment by the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund in any one investee company 
shall not exceed five percent of its fund capital at the time of investment: 
Provided that the combined investment in the corporate debt securities of an issuer group as 
specified under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 
shall not exceed seven and half percent of its fund capital at the time of investment. 
Explanation:  For the purpose of this sub -regulation, ‘fund capital’ shall be the aggregate of the 
corpus of the fund and maximum permissible borrowing as per sub -regulation (9) of this 
regulation. 
(9) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund may borro w funds up to ten times its corpus, 
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board in consultation with the Government 
of India.

[Page 54]
(10) The valuation procedure and methodology for valuing assets of the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund shall be governed by the norms applicable to Mutual Fund schemes under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996. 
(11) In-specie distribution of assets of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund may be 
made to the unit hol ders, only at the time of winding up subject to the consent of seventy -five 
percent of the unit holders by value of their investment in such fund.   
(12) Any material alteration to the investment strategy of the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund shall be with the prior approval of the Board. 
 
Disclosures.  
19R. (1) The portfolio of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall be disclosed to the 
unitholders on a fortnightly basis. 
(2) The Net Asset Value of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fun d shall be disclosed to 
the unitholders on a daily basis. 
 
Governance Mechanism for the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund. 
19S. (1) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall appoint a trustee company. 
(2) The Board of directors of trustee compa ny and the Manager of the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund shall be appointed with the prior approval of the Board. 
(3) The roles and responsibilities of the trustee company shall be similar to the roles and 
responsibilities assigned to trustees unde r the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
Funds) Regulations, 1996.  
(4) The trustee company of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall not engage in 
any activity other than acting as a trustee of the Corporate Debt Market Development F und, 
except with the prior written consent of the Board: 
Provided that any other activity of the trustee company as permitted by the Board shall not be in 
conflict with its role as the trustee of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund.

[Page 55]
(5) Two -thirds o f the members of the board of directors of the trustee company shall be 
independent directors and shall not be associated with the Sponsor or the Manager in any manner 
whatsoever. 
(6) No person shall initially or any time thereafter be appointed as a direc tor of the trustee 
company of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund without the prior approval of the 
Board. 
(7) An audit committee of the trustee company shall be constituted to review compliance with 
the provisions of placement memorandum as require d under these regulations along with other 
responsibilities as may be specified by the Board from time to time.  
(8) The manager of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall appoint a Governance 
Committee. 
(9) The Governance Committee shall comprise  corporate bond market experts including 
academicians, fund managers or Chief Investment Officers, risk management professionals and 
independent market experts. 
(10) The Governance Committee, jointly with the board of the Manager and trustee company, 
shall approve the policies of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund.  
(11) The Governance Committee shall supervise the activities of the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund, especially relating to management of conflict of interest, if any.    
(12) The  Governance Committee shall have oversight on management of asset liability 
mismatches during times of market dislocation.   
 
Prohibition of Listing.  
19T. The units of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall not be listed on any 
recognised stock exchange. 
Others. 
19U. (1) The provisions of Chapter III -C of these regulations shall cease to exist upon the 
winding up of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund.

[Page 56]
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -regulation (1) of this regulation, the Ma nager of 
Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall continue to be responsible for any liabilities, 
that may arise out of the mandate in relation to its investment management activities.”] 
 
174[CHAPTER III-D 
Definitions. 
19V. For the purpose of this Chapte r, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined 
herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below and their cognate expressions and 
variations shall be construed accordingly,- 
 
(1) “migrated venture capital fund” means a fund that was previousl y registered as a venture 
capital fund under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) 
Regulations, 1996 and subsequently registered under these regulations as a sub -category of 
Venture Capital Fund under Category I - Alternative Investment Fund in accordance with 
the provisions of this Chapter. 
(2) “investable funds” means corpus of the scheme of the migrated venture capital fund net of 
expenditure for administration and management of the fund. 
 
Applicability. 
19W. (1) The provisions o f this Chapter shall apply only to migrated venture capital funds and 
schemes launched by such migrated venture capital funds. 
 
(2) All other provisions of these regulations, except the following provisions  and the guidelines 
and circulars issued under these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires or is repugnant 
to the provisions of this Chapter, shall apply to the migrated venture capital fund, its trustee, 
trustee company, directors of the trustee company, directors of the migrated venture ca pital fund, 
as the case may be, sponsor, if any, Manager, if any, and investors: 
(i)  clause (p), (w), of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2;  
(ii)  sub-regulation (5) of regulation 3;  
(iii)  regulation 4; 
                                                      
174 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 20-07-2024.

[Page 57]
(iv)  sub-regulation (2), (4) and (5) of regulation 6;  
(v)  sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7;  
(vi)  regulations 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16;  
(vii) sub-regulation (11), (11A), (15) (17), (18) and (19) of regulation 20;  
(viii)  sub-regulations (2), (3), (4) and (5) of regulation 23; and  
(ix)  sub-regulation (2) of regulation 27.  
 
Procedure for grant of Certificate. 
19X. (1) An application for seeking registration as a migrated venture capital fund shall be made 
to the Board in the manner specified by Board. 
 
(2) The certificate of registration as a Category I Alternative Investment Fund – Venture Capital 
Fund (Migrated Venture Capital Fund)  shall be granted by the Board , if it is satisfied that the 
applicant fulfills all the requirements as specified in this Chapter under these regulations. 
 
Eligibility Criteria. 
19Y. For the purpose of the grant of certificate under this Chapter, the Board shall consider the 
following eligibility conditions, namely, — 
(a) the applicant has a certificate of registration as a Venture Capital Fund under 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996; 
(b) the applicant is a fit and proper person; 
(c) the applicant has furnished the required information as specified by the Board from 
time to time; 
(d) the applicant has no pending investor complaint with  regard to non -receipt of funds 
or securities for any of its schemes  whose assets are not liquidated in terms of sub -
regulation (2) of regulation 24 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture 
Capital Funds) Regulations 1996, on the date of application under this Chapter; 
(e) no scheme launched by the applicant has investment from an investor which is less 
than five lakh rupees: 
Provided that nothing contained in clause (e) shall apply to investors who are 
employees or the principal officer or directors of the venture capital fund or directors 
of the trustee company or trustees where the venture capital fund has been

[Page 58]
established as a trust or the employees of the manager or asset management company 
of the migrated venture capital fund; 
(f) each scheme launched by the applicant has a firm commitment from the investors for 
contribution of an amount not below rupees five crores before the start of operations 
by the applicant. 
 
Prohibition on inviting subscription from the public. 
19Z. Migrated venture capital fund shall not issue a document or an advertisement inviting offers 
from the public for the subscription or purchase of any of its units.   
 
Private placement. 
19AA. A migrated venture capital fund may receive monies for investment in the  migrated 
venture capital fund only through private placement of its units.   
 
Placement memorandum or subscription agreement. 
19AB. (1) The migrated venture capital fund shall— 
(a) issue a placement memorandum which shall contain details of the terms and 
conditions subject to which monies are proposed to be raised from investors; or 
(b) enter into a contribution or subscription agreement with the investors which shall 
specify the terms and conditions subject to which monies are proposed to be raised. 
 
(2) The migrated venture capital fund shall file with the Board for information, the copy of the 
placement memorandum or the copy of the contribution or subscription agreement entered into 
with the investors along with a report of money actually collected from the investor.  
 
Contents of Placement Memorandum.  
19AC. The placement memorandum or the subscription agreement with investors shall contain 
the following, namely –  
(a) details of the trustees or trustee company and the directors or chief executives of the 
migrated venture capital fund;  
(b) the corpus of the fund , the minimum amount to be raised for the fund to be 
operational, the minimum amount to be raised for each scheme and the provision for 
refund of monies to the investor in the event of non-receipt of minimum amount;

[Page 59]
(c) details of ent itlements on the units of venture capital fund for which subscription is 
being sought; 
(d) tax implications that are likely to apply to investors; 
(e) manner of subscription to the units of the migrated venture capital fund;  
(f) the period of maturity, if any, of the fund;  
(g) the manner, if any, in which the fund shall be wound up;  
(h) the manner in which the benefits accruing to investors in the units of the trust are to 
be distributed;  
(i) details of the fund manager or asset management company, if any, and the fees to be 
paid to such manager;  
(j) the details about performance of the fund, if any, managed by the Fund Manager;  
(k) investment strategy of the fund; and  
(l) any other information specified by the Board. 
 
Investment by migrated venture capital fund. 
19AD. (1) Investments b y migrated venture capital fund shall be subject to the following 
conditions:— 
(a) the migrated venture capital fund shall not invest more than 25% corpus of the fund 
in a single venture capital undertaking; 
(b) the migrated venture capital fund may invest in  the securities of companies 
incorporated outside India subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be 
stipulated or issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the Board from time to time; 
(c) The migrated venture capital fund shall not invest in the associated companies; and 
(d) the migrated venture capital fund shall invest as enumerated below: 
(i) at least 66.67% of the investable funds shall be invested in unlisted equity shares 
or equity linked instruments of venture capital undertaking;  
(ii) not more than 33.33% of the investable funds may be invested by way of: 
(a) subscription to  the initial public offer of a venture capital undertaking 
whose shares are proposed to be listed;

[Page 60]
(b) investment in the debt or debt instrument of a venture capital undertaking 
in which the venture capital fund has already made an investment by way 
of equity; 
(c) preferential allotment of equity shares of a listed company subject to a 
lock in period of one year; 
(d) investment in the equity shares or equity linked instruments of a 
financially weak company or a sick industrial company whose shares are 
listed. 
Explanation. — For the purpose of these regulations, a “financially weak 
company” means a company, which has at the end of the previous 
financial year, accumulated losses, which ha s resulted in the erosion of 
more than 50% but less than 100% of its net worth at the beginning of the 
previous financial year; 
(e) investment in the Special Purpose Vehicles that are created by a venture 
capital fund for the purpose of facilitating or pro moting investment in 
accordance with these regulations. 
Explanation. — The investment conditions and restrictions stipulated  in 
clause (d) of sub -regulation (1) shall be achieved by the venture capital 
fund by the end of its life cycle. 
 
(2) The migrated v enture capital fund may enter into an agreement with the merchant banker to 
subscribe to the unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process 
of market making under Chapter IX of the Securities and Exchange Board of Indi a (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and the provisions of sub-regulation (1) 
shall not apply in case of acquisition or sale of securities pursuant to such subscription or market 
making. 
 
(3) Notwithstanding the conditions as specified in sub -regulations (1) and (2) , the Board may 
specify additional requirements or criteria for investments by the migrated venture capital funds. 
 
Schemes. 
19AE. A migrated venture capital fund shall not launch any new scheme.

[Page 61]
Tenure. 
19AF. (1) The tenure of a migrated venture capital fund shall be calculated in the manner as may 
be specified by the Board. 
 
(2) Extension of the tenure of a migrated venture capital fund may be permitted up to two years 
subject to the approval of two -thirds of the u nit holders by value of their investment in the 
migrated venture capital fund. 
 
(3) In the absence of consent of the unit holders under sub -regulation (2) or upon expiry of the 
extended tenure, the migrated venture capital fund or the scheme of the migrate d venture capital 
fund shall be wound up in accordance with Regulation 29 of these regulations: 
 
Provided that sub-regulation (9A) of regulation 29 shall not be applicable to a  migrated venture 
capital fund or the scheme of the migrated venture capital fund. 
 
(4) If the assets of a scheme of a venture capital fund registered under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Regulations) 1996 , are not liquidated after the expiry 
of its tenure in terms of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 24 of  Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Venture Capital Regulations), 1996  prior to the date of application for registration under 
this Chapter , and the venture capital fund has been granted registration as a migrated venture 
capital fund under these regulations, then such schemes of the migrated venture capital fund may 
be granted additional liquidation period, subject to conditions and in the manner as may be 
specified by the Board: 
 
Provided that the registration as migrated venture capital fund granted  under regulation 19X of 
these regulations and the additional liquidation period granted under sub -regulation (4) of this 
regulation shall be without prejudice to the issuance of any direction or measures in accordance 
with the provision of the Act and regulations framed thereunder. 
 
Listing.

[Page 62]
19AG. No migrated venture capital fund shall be entitled to get its units listed on any recognised 
stock exchange till the expiry of three years from the date of the issuance of units by the 
migrated venture capital fund. 
 
Maintenance of Records. 
19AH. The migrated venture capital fund shall maintain its records under sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 27 of these regulations for a period of eight years after the winding up of the fund.] 
 
 CHAPTER IV 
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES AND TRANSPERANCY 
General Obligations.   
175[20 (1) Alternative Investment Fund, key management personnel of the Alternative Investment 
Fund, trustee, trustee company, directors of the trustee company, designated partners or directors 
                                                      
175 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021.Prior to its substitution regulation 20 read as follows-  
“20(1) All Alternative Investment Funds shall review policies and procedures, and their implementation, on a 
regular basis, or as a result of business developments, to ensure their continued appropriateness.  
(2) The Sponsor or Manager of Alternative Investment Fund shall appoint a custodian registered with the 
Board for safekeeping of securities if the corpus of the Alternativ e Investment Fund is more than five hundred crore 
rupees: 
Provided that the Sponsor or Manager of a Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall appoint such custodian 
irrespective of the size of corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund. 
 *[Provided further that the custodian appointed by Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall keep custody of 
securities and goods received in delivery against physical settlement of commodity derivatives.]  
(3) All Alternative Investment Funds shall inform the Board  in case of any change in the Sponsor, Manager or 
designated partners or any other material change from the information provided by the Alternative Investment Fund 
at the time of application for registration.  
(4) In case of change in control of the Altern ative Investment Fund, Sponsor or Manager, prior approval from 
the Board shall be taken by the Alternative Investment Fund. 
(5) The books of accounts of the Alternative Investment Fund shall be audited annually by a qualified auditor.  
 **[(6) The Manager shall be responsible for investment decisions of the Alternative Investment Fund:  
Provided that the Manager may constitute an Investment Committee (by whatever name it may be called), to 
approve investment decisions of the Alternative Investment Fund, subject to the following:  
(i) The members of Investment Committee shall be equally responsible as the Manager for investment 
decisions of the Alternative Investment Fund. 
(ii) The Manager and members of the Investment Committee shall jointly and severally ens ure that the 
investments of the Alternative Investment Fund are in compliance with the provisions of these regulations, the terms 
of the placement memorandum, agreement made with the investor, any other fund documents and any other 
applicable law. 
(iii) External members whose names are not disclosed in the placement memorandum or agreement made with 
the investor or any other fund documents at the time of on -boarding investors, shall be appointed to the Investment 
Committee only with the consent of at least seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the 
Alternative Investment Fund or scheme.

[Page 63]
of t he Alternative Investment Fund, as the case may be, managers and key management 
personnel of managers shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Fourth Schedule. 
Explanation.– For the purpose of this sub-regulation, ‘key management personnel’ shall have the 
meaning as specified by the Board from time to time. 
(2) The Manager and either the trustee or trustee company or the Board of Directors or the 
designated partners of the Alternative Investment Fund, as the case may be, shall ensure 
compliance by the Alternative Investment Fund with the Code of Conduct as specified in the 
Fourth Schedule. 
(3) All Alternative Investment Funds shall have detailed policies and procedures, as approved 
jointly by the Manager and the trustee or trustee company or Bo ard of Directors or designated 
partners of the Alternative Investment Fund, as the case may be, to ensure that all the decisions 
of the Alternative Investment Fund are in compliance with the provisions of these regulations, 
terms of the placement memorandu m, agreements made with investors, other fund documents 
and applicable laws. 
(4) All Alternative Investment Funds shall review the policies and procedures laid down in terms 
of sub regulation (3) of this regulation, other internal policies, if any, and the ir implementation, 
on a regular basis or as a result of business developments, to ensure their continued 
appropriateness. 
(5) The Manager shall be responsible for every decision of the Alternative Investment Fund, 
including ensuring that the decisions are in compliance with the provisions of these regulations, 
terms of the placement memorandum, agreements made with investors, other fund documents 
and applicable laws. 
(6) The Manager shall be responsible for ensuring that every decision of the Alternative 
Investment Fund is in compliance with the policies and procedures laid down for the Alternative 
                                                                                                                                                                           
(iv) Any other conditions as specified by the Board from time to time ***[:]] 
***[Provided further that clauses (i) and (ii) shall not apply to  an Alternative Investment Fund in which each 
investor other than the Manager, Sponsor, employees or directors of the Alternative Investment Fund or employees 
or directors of the Manager, has committed to invest not less than seventy crore rupees (or an eq uivalent amount in 
currency other than Indian rupee) and has furnished a waiver to the Alternative Investment Fund in respect of 
compliance with the said clauses, in the manner specified by the Board.]” 
* Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2019, w.e.f. 10-05-2019. 
** Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 19-10-2020. 
*** Inserted by the Securities a nd Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 08-01-2021.

[Page 64]
Investment Fund in terms of sub regulation (3) of this regulation and other internal policies of the 
Alternative Investment Fund, as applicable. 
(7) The Manager m ay constitute an Investment Committee (by whatever name called), to 
approve the decisions of the Alternative Investment Fund and such constitution shall be subject 
to such conditions as specified by the Board from time to time. 
(8) The members of the Inves tment Committee shall be responsible for ensuring that the 
decisions of the Investment Committee are in compliance with the policies and procedures laid 
down in terms of sub regulation (3) of this regulation: 
Provided  that  sub -regulation (8) of this regu lation  shall  not  apply  to  an  Alternative  
Investment Fund in which each investor other than the Manager, Sponsor, employees or directors 
of the Alternative Investment Fund or employees or directors of the Manager, has committed to 
invest not less tha n seventy crore rupees (or an equivalent amount in currency other than Indian 
rupees) and has furnished a waiver to the Alternative Investment Fund in respect of compliance 
with the said sub-regulation, in the manner as may be specified by the Board. 
176[Provided further that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not apply to large value fund 
for accredited investors.] 
(9) The members of the Investment Committee shall abide by the Code of Conduct applicable to 
them as specified in Fourth Schedule. 
(10) The external members of the Investment Committee whose names are not disclosed in the 
placement memorandum or in the agreement made with the investor or any other fund document 
at the time of on -boarding investors shall be appointed to the Investment Commi ttee only with 
the consent of at least seventy five percent of the investors by the value of their investment in the 
Alternative Investment Fund or scheme. 
177[(11) The Sponsor or Manager of the Alternative Investment  Fund shall appoint a Custodian 
registered with the Board for safekeeping of the securities of the Alternative Investment Fund,  in 
the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
                                                      
176 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19-11-2025. 
177 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 05-01-2024. Prior to the substitution, it read as  
“The Sponsor or Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund shall appoint a custo dian registered with the Board 
for safekeeping of the securities if the corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund is more than five hundred crore 
rupees:

[Page 65]
Provided that the Custodian appointed by the Sponsor or Manager of a Category III  Alternative 
Investment Fund shall keep the custody of the securities and goods received in  delivery against 
the physical settlement of commodity derivative:  
Provided further that the Custodian appointed by the Sponsor or Manager of an Alternative  
Investment Fund shall report or disclose such information regarding investments of the  
Alternative Investment Fund in such manner as may be specified by the Board from time to  
time.] 
178[(11A) A Custodian which is an associate of the Sponsor or Manager of an Alternative 
Investment Fund may act as a custodian for that Alternative Investment Fund only when all the  
following conditions are met: 
(a) the Sponsor or Manager has a net worth of at least twenty thousand crore rupees at all points 
of time; 
(b) fifty per cent or more of the directo rs of the Custodian do not represent the interest  of the 
Sponsor or Manager or their associates; 
(c) the Custodian and the Sponsor or Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund are  not 
subsidiaries of each other; 
(d) the custodian and the Sponsor or Manage r of the Alternative Investment Fund do not  have 
common directors; and 
(e) the Custodian and the Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund sign an  undertaking that 
they shall act independently of each other in their dealings of the  schemes of the Alternative 
Investment Fund.] 
(12) All Alternative Investment Funds shall inform the Board in case of any 179[***] material 
change from the information provided by the Alternative Investment Fund at the time of 
application for registration.  
                                                                                                                                                                           
Provided that the Sponsor or Manager of a Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall appoint such a 
custodian, irrespective of the size of the corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund:  
Provided further that the custodian appointed by Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall keep the custody of 
the securities and goods received in delivery against the physical settlement of commodity derivatives.  
*Provided further that the Sponsor or Manager of the Category I and Category II Alternative Investment Fund 
transacting in credit default swaps shall appoint a custodian registered with the Board and com ply with such terms 
and conditions as may be specified by the Board.”. 
*This proviso was inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 09-01-2023. 
178 Inserted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 05-01-2024.

[Page 66]
(13) In case of 180[change of Sponsor or Manager, or]  change in control of the Alternative 
Investment Fund, Sponsor or Manager, prior approval from the Board shall be taken by the 
Alternative Investment Fund  181[, subject to levy of fees and any other conditions as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time]. 
(14) The books of accounts of the Alternative Investment Fund shall be audited annually by a 
qualified auditor.] 
182[(15) The Manager shall not provide advisory services to any in vestor other than the investors 
of a co-investment scheme or clients of a Co -investment Portfolio Manager  as specified in the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 202 0, for investment 
in securities of investee companies where the Alternative Investment Fund managed b y it makes 
investment.] 
183[(16) The Manager and either the trustee or the trustee company or the Board of Directors or 
designated partners of the Alternative Investment Fund, as the case may be, shall ensure that the 
assets and liabilities of each scheme of  an Alternative Investment Fund are segregated and ring -
fenced from other schemes of the Alternative Investment Fund; and bank accounts and securities 
accounts of each scheme are segregated and ring-fenced.] 
184[(17) The Manager shall appoint a Compliance Of ficer who shall be responsible for 
monitoring compliance with the provisions of the Act, rules, regulations, notifications, circulars, 
guidelines, instructions or any other directives issued by the Board. 
(18) The Compliance Officer shall satisfy the eligibility criteria as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time. 
                                                                                                                                                                           
179 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. 
180 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. 
181 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. 
182 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (15) of regulation 20 read as follows – 
“(15) The  manager  shall  not  provide  advisory  services  to  any  investor  ot her  than  the  clients  of  Co 
investment  Portfolio  Manager  as  specified  in  the Securities  and  Exchan ge  Board  of  India (Portfolio 
Managers) Regulations, 2020,  for investment in securities of investee companies where the Alternative Investment 
Fund managed by it makes investment.” 
183 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. 
184 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f  15-06-2023.

[Page 67]
(19) The Compliance Officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non -
compliance observed by him, as soon as possible but not later than seven working days from the 
date of observing such non-compliance.] 
185[(20) Every Alternative Investment Fund, Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund and 
Key Management Personnel of the Manager and the Alternative Investm ent Fund shall exercise 
specific due diligence, with respect to their investors and investments, to prevent facilitation of  
circumvention of such laws, as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
Explanation: “laws” shall include Acts, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines or circulars 
framed thereunder that are ad ministered by a financial sector regulator, including those 
administered by the Board.] 
186[(21) The investors of a scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund shall have rights, pro -rata 
to their commitment to the scheme, in each investment of the scheme and i n the distribution of 
proceeds of such investment, except as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that the rights of the investors of a schemes of Alternative Investment Fund issued prior 
to the notification of the Securities and Excha nge Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2024, which are not pro-rata to their commitment to the scheme 
and not exempted by the Board, shall be dealt with in the manner specified by the Board.  
(22) The rights of inv estors of a scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund, other than that 
specified in sub-regulation (21) of this regulation, shall be pari-passu in all aspects:  
Provided that differential rights may be offered to select investors of a scheme of an Alternati ve 
Investment Fund, in the manner as may be specified by the Board, without affecting the interest 
of other investors of the scheme:  
Provided further that the requirement under sub -regulation (22) of this regulation shall not apply 
to 187[Accredited Investors only fund]: 
Provided further that any differential right already issued by an Alternative Investment Fund 
prior to the notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment 
                                                      
185 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f  25-04-2024. 
186 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 18-11-2024. 
187 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternati ve Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19 -11-2025. Prior to the substitution, it read as “ Large Value Fund f or Accredited 
Investors”.

[Page 68]
Funds) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2024, not fal ling within the first proviso of sub -
regulation (22) of this regulation, shall be dealt with in the manner as specified by the Board.] 
188[(23) The Alternative Investment Fund shall ensure compliance with the Investor Charter  
specified by the Board from time to time.] 
189[(24) The responsibilities and obligations of a trustee of  an Alternative Investment Fund 
specified under these regulations shall, in case of an Acc redited Investors only fund, be carried 
out by the manager of the Accredited Investors only fund.] 
 
Conflict of Interest. 
21. (1) The Sponsor and Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund shall act in a fiduciary 
capacity towards its investors and shall disclose to the investors, all conflicts of interests 
as and when they arise or seem likely to arise.  
(2) Manager shall establish and implement written policies and procedures to identify, 
monitor and appropriately mitigate conflicts of interest throughout the scope of business.  
(3) Managers and Sponsors of Alternative Investment Fund shall abide by high level 
principles on avoidance of conflicts of interest with associated persons, as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time. 
Transparency. 
22.    All Alternative Investment Funds shall ensure transparency and disclosure of information 
to investors on the following:  
(a) financial, risk management, operational, portfolio, and transactional information 
regarding fund investments shall be disclosed periodically to the investors;  
(b) any fees ascribed to the Manager or Sponsor; and any fees charged to the Alterna tive 
Investment Fund or any investee company by an associate of the Manager or Sponsor 
shall be disclosed periodically to the investors; 
                                                      
188 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Charter) (Amendment) Regulati ons, 2025 w.e.f. 
10-02-2025. 
189 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 19-11-2025.

[Page 69]
(c)any inquiries/ legal actions by legal or regulatory bodies in any jurisdiction, as and when 
occurred; 
(d) any materi al liability arising during the Alternative Investment Fund’s tenure shall be 
disclosed, as and when occurred; 
(e) any breach of a provision of the placement memorandum or agreement made with the 
investor or any other fund documents, if any, as and when occurred; 
(f) change in control of the Sponsor or Manager or Investee Company.   
(g) Alternative Investment Fund shall provide at least on an annual basis, within 180 days 
from the year end, reports to investors including the following information, as may be 
applicable to the Alternative Investment Fund:- 
A. financial information of investee companies. 
B. material risks and how they are managed which may include: 
(i) concentration risk at fund level; 
(ii) foreign exchange risk at fund level; 
(iii)leverage risk at fund and investee company levels; 
(iv) realization risk (i.e. change in exit environment) at fund and investee company 
levels; 
(v) strategy risk (i.e. change in or divergence from business strategy) at investee 
company level; 
(vi) reputation risk at investee company level; 
(vii) extra-financial risks, including environmental, social and corporate governance 
risks, at fund and investee company level. 
(h) Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall provide quarterly reports to investors in 
respect of clause (g) within 60 days of end of the quarter; 
(i) any significant change in the key investment team shall be intimated to all investors;

[Page 70]
(j) alternative Investment Funds shall provide, when required by the Board, information for 
systemic risk purposes (including the identification, analysis and mitigation of systemi c 
risks). 
Valuation. 
23. (1) The Alternative Investment Fund shall 190[carry out valuation of its investments in the 
manner specified by the Board from time to time and ] provide to its investors, a 
description of its valuation procedure and of the methodology for valuing assets. 
(2) Category I and Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall undertake valuation of 
their investments, atleast once in every six months, by an independent valuer appointed 
by the Alternative Investment Fund: 
Provided that such period may  be enhanced to one year on approval of atleast seventy -
five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment 
Fund. 
(3) Category III Alternative  Investment Funds shall ensure that calculation of the net asset 
value (NAV) is independent from the fund management function of the Alternative 
Investment Fund and such NAV shall be disclosed to the investors at intervals not longer 
than a quarter for close ended Funds and at intervals not longer than a month for  open 
ended funds: 
191[Provided that for the purpose of calculation of NAV, Category III Alternative 
Investment Funds shall undertake valuation of their investment in unlisted securities and 
listed debt securities by an independent valuer. 
(4) The Manager shall ensure that the Alte rnative Investment Fund appoints an 
independent valuer who satisfies the criteria specified by the Board from time to time. 
(5) The Manager and the key management personnel of the Manager shall ensure that the 
independent valuer computes and carries out valuat ion of the investments of the scheme 
                                                      
190 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Fu nds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f  01-11-2023. 
191 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f  01-11-2023.

[Page 71]
of the Alternative Investment Fund in the manner specified by the Board from time to 
time. 
(6) The Manager shall be responsible for true and fair valuation of the investments of the 
scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund: 
Provided that in case the established policies and procedures of valuation do not result in 
fair and appropriate valuation, the Manager shall deviate from the established policies 
and procedures in order to value the assets or securities at a fair value and document the 
rationale for such deviation: 
Provided further that such deviation and its rationale shall be reported to the trustee or the 
trustee company or the Board of Directors or designated partners of the Alternative 
Investment Fund and investors of the Alternative Investment Fund.] 
 
Obligation of Manager. 
24. The Manager shall be obliged to: 
(a) address all investor complaints; 
(b) provide to the Board any information sought by Board; 
(c) maintain all records as may be specified by the Board; 
(d) take all steps to address conflict of interest as specified in these regulations; 
(e) ensure transparency and disclosure as specified in the regulations.  
 
192[ Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
24A. (1) The Manager shall redress investor grievances promptly but not later than twenty -one 
calendar days from the date of receipt of the grievance and in such manner as may be specified 
by the Board. 
(2) The Board may also recognize a body corporate for handling and monitoring the process of 
grievance redressal within such time and in such manner as may be specified.] 
                                                      
192 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance  Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023.

[Page 72]
Dispute Resolution. 
25. 193[All claims, differences or disputes between investors and the Alternative Investment 
Fund or the Manager arising out of or in relation to the activities of the Alternative 
Investment Fund or the Manager in  the securities market shall be submitted to a dispute 
resolution mechanism that includes mediation and/or conciliation and/or arbitration, in 
accordance with the procedure specified by the Board: 
Provided that if the Alternative Investment Fund has been e stablished as a trust, then no loss 
or damage or expenses incurred by the Manager or officers of the Manager, including those 
in relation to resolution of claims or disputes of investors, shall be met out of the trust 
property.]  
Power to call for information. 
26. (1) The Board may at any time call for any information from an Alternative 
Investment Fund or its Manager or Sponsor or trustee or investor with respect to any 
matter relating to its activity as an Alternative Investment Fund or for the assessment of 
systemic risk or prevention of fraud. 
(2) Where any information is called for under sub -regulation (1) it shall be furnished within 
the time specified by the Board. 
Maintenance of Records. 
27. (1) The Manager or Sponsor shall be required to maintain following records describing: 
(a) the assets under the scheme/fund; 
(b) valuation policies and practices; 
(c) investment strategies; 
(d) particulars of investors and their contribution; 
                                                      
193 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism ) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 04-07-2023. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as follows: 
“An Alternative Investment Fund, by itself or through the Manager or Sponsor, shall lay down procedure for 
resolution of disputes between the investors, Alternative Investment Fund, Manager or Sponso r through arbitration 
or any such mechanism as mutually decided between the investors and the Alternative Investment Fund. ”

[Page 73]
(e) rationale for investments made. 
(2) The records under sub -regulation (1) shall be maintained for a perio d of five years after 
the winding up of the fund. 
Submission of reports to the Board. 
28. The Board may at any time call upon the Alternative Investment Fund to file such reports, as 
the Board may desire, with respect to the activities carried on by the Altern ative Investment 
Fund. 
 
Winding up. 
29. (1) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a trust shall be wound up: 
(a) when the tenure of the Alternative Investment Fund or all schemes launched by the 
Alternative  Investment Fund, as mentioned in the placement memora ndum is over; 
or 
(b) if it is the opinion of the trustees or the trustee company, as the case may be, that the 
Alternative  Investment Fund be wound up in the interests of investors in the units; 
or 
(c) if seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative  
Investment Fund pass a resolution at a meeting of unitholders that the Alternative  
Investment Fund be wound up; or 
(d) if the Board so directs in the interests of investors. 
(2) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a limited liabi lity partnership shall be wound 
up in accordance with the provisions of The Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008: 
(a) when the tenure of the Alternative  Investment Fund or all schemes launched by the 
Alternative  Investment Fund, as mentioned in the placem ent memorandum is over; 
or

[Page 74]
(b) if seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative  
Investment Fund pass a resolution at a meeting of unitholders that the Alternative  
Investment Fund be wound up; or 
(c) if the Board so directs in the interests of investors. 
(3) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a company shall be wound up in accordance 
with the provisions of the 194[Companies Act, 2013]. 
(4) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a body corporate shall be wound up in 
accordance with the provisions of the statute under which it is constituted. 
(5) The trustees or trustee company or the Board of Directors or designated partners of the 
Alternative Investment Fund, as the case maybe, shall intimate the Board and investors of 
the circumstances leading to the winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund. 
(6) On and from the date of intimation under sub -regulation (5) of regulation 29, no further 
investments shall be made on behalf of the Alternative Investment Fund so wound up. 
(7) Within 195[the li quidation period ], the assets shall be liquidated, and the proceeds 
accruing to investors in the Alternative Investment Fund 196[or the scheme of the 
Alternative Investment Fund ] shall be distributed to them after satisfying all liabilities  
197[, subject to conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time]. 
(8) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (7) and subject to the conditions, if 
any, contained in the placement memorandum or contribution agreement or subscription 
agreement, as the case may be, 198[in specie distribution of assets of the scheme of the 
Alternative Investment Fund ], shall be made by the Alternative Investment Fund at any 
                                                      
194 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to its substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”. 
195 Substituted for the words “one year from the date of intimation under sub -regulation (5) of regulation 29 ” by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investm ent Funds) ( Second Amendment) Regulations, 202 3 
w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
196 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
197 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board  of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026 w.e.f 18-04-2026. 
198 Substituted for the words “ in specie distribution of assets of the Alternative Investment Fund ” by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment  Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 202 3 w.e.f 15-06-
2023.

[Page 75]
time, 199[including on winding up of the scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund ], as 
per the preference of investors, 200[subject to conditions as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time]. 
(9) 201[Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (7), during liquidation period of 
a scheme, an Alternative Investment Fund may distribute investments of a  scheme which 
are not sold due to lack of liquidity, in -specie to the investors or 202[enter into dissolution 
period], after obtaining approval of at least seventy five percent of the investors by value 
of their investment in the scheme of the Alternative In vestment Fund, in the manner and 
subject to conditions specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that in the absence of consent of unit holders for exercising the options under 
sub-regulation (9) during liquidation period, such investments of the scheme of the 
Alternative Investment Fund shall be dealt with in the manner as may be specified by the 
Board from time to time.]  
203 [(9A) If the liquidation period for a scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund has expired or is 
expiring within three months from the date of notification of the Securities and  Exchange 
Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment)  Regulations, 2024, 
such schemes may be granted an additional liquidation period, subject  to such conditions 
and in the manner as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that the additional liquidation period granted under sub -regulation (9A) shall be 
without prejudice to the issuance of any direction or measures in accordance with  the 
provision of the Act and regulations framed thereunder. 
(10) If the scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund enters into a dissolution period as 
provided under regulation 29B and the unliquidated investments of the scheme are not 
                                                      
199 Substituted for the words “ including on winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund ” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) Regulati ons, 202 3 w.e.f 15-06-
2023. 
200 Substituted for the words “ after obtaining approval of at least seventy five percent of the investors by value of 
their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
201 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
202 Substituted for the words “sell such i nvestments to a liquidation scheme” by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 25 -04-2024. 
203 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 25-04-2024.

[Page 76]
sold by the expiry of the dissolution period, such investments shall be m andatorily 
distributed in-specie to the investors, in the manner as may be specified by the Board.] 
204[(10A) An Alternative Investment Fund may be tagged as an inoperative fund, in  such manner 
and subject to conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
205[(11)] Upon winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund, the certificate of registration 
shall be surrendered to the Board. 
206[Liquidation Scheme. 
29A. (1) The Alternative Investment Fund may launch a liquidation scheme subject to filing o f 
placement memorandum with the Board.  
(2) The requirements under Regulation 10(b), Regulation 10(c), Regulation 12, Regulation 13(1), 
Regulation 13(2), Regulation 13(4), Regulation 13(5), Regulation 15, Regulation 16, Regulation 
17, Regulation 18, Regula tion 19L(1), Regulation 19L(2), Regulation 19M, Regulation 29 (7) 
and Regulation 29 (9) shall not apply to a liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund. 
(3) The placement memorandum of liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall 
be filed with the Board through a merchant banker along with the fees as specified in the Second 
Schedule. 
(4) The tenure of liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall be determined at 
the time of filing of placement memorandum with the Bo ard in the manner and subject to 
conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
(5) The tenure of liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall not be extended. 
(6) The liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall not accept any fresh 
commitment from any investor and shall not make any new investment. 
(7) The investments of the liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund which are not 
sold due to lack of liquidity by the end of its tenure shall be dealt with, in the mann er as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time.] 
                                                      
204 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2026 w.e.f 18-04-2026. 
205 Sub-regulation (10) renumbered as (11)  by the Securities and Ex change Board of India (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 25-04-2024. 
206 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023.

[Page 77]
207[(8) No Alternative Investment Fund shall launch any new liquidation scheme under this 
regulation after the notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024:  
Provided that any liquidation scheme launched by an Alternative Investment Fund prior 
to the notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 202 4 shall continue to be governed by regulation 29A and 
the other provisions of these regulations till such schemes are wound up.] 
208[Dissolution Period. 
29B. (1) A scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund may enter into a dissolution period in the 
manner and subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
(2) The scheme entering into a dissolution period shall file an information memorandum with the 
Board through a merchant banker in the manner as may be specified by the Board. 
(3) The dissolution period of a scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund shall not be more than 
the original tenure of the scheme and shall not be extended in any manner upon expiry of the 
dissolution period. 
(4) The scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall not accep t any fresh commitment from 
any investor and shall not make any new investment during the dissolution period.] 
 
CHAPTER V 
INSPECTION 
Board’s right to inspect.  
30. The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more 
persons as Inspecting Authority to undertake inspection of the books of account, records and 
                                                      
207 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 25-04-2024. 
208 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 25-04-2024.

[Page 78]
documents relating to an Alternative Investment Fund for any of the following reasons, 
namely, — 
(a) to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being mainta ined by the 
Alternative Investment Fund in the manner specified in these regulations; 
(b) to inspect complaints received from investors, clients or any other person, on any matter 
having a bearing on the activities of the Alternative Investment Fund; 
(c) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied 
with by the Alternative Investment Fund;  
(d) to inspect suo motu the affairs of an Alternative Investment Fund, in the interest of the 
securities market or in the interest of investors. 
Notice before inspection. 
31. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 30, the Board shall give not less 
than ten days notice to the Alternative Investment Fund. 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -regulation (1) where the Board is satisf ied 
that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in 
writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the Alternative Investment Fund be 
taken up without such notice. 
(3) During the course of an inspection, the Al ternative Investment Fund against whom the 
inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided in 
regulation 32. 
Obligation of Alternative Investment Fund on inspection.  
32. (1) It shall be the duty of every officer of the Alternative Investment Fund in respect 
of whom an inspection has been ordered under regulation 30 and any other associated 
person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of 
such Alternative Investment Fund including Manager, if any, to produce to the Inspecting 
Authority such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish 
him with such statements and information as the said Authority may require for the 
purposes of the inspection.

[Page 79]
(2) It shall be  the duty of every officer of the Alternative Investment Fund and any other 
associated person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and 
affairs of the Alternative Investment Fund including the manager to give to the Inspecting 
Authority all such assistance and shall extend all such co -operation as may be required in 
connection with the inspection and shall furnish such information as sought by the 
Inspecting Authority in connection with the inspection. 
(3) The Inspecting Authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on 
oath and record the statement of any employees, directors or person responsible for or 
connected with the activities of Alternative Investment Fund or any other associated 
person having relevant information pertaining to such Alternative Investment Fund. 
(4) The Inspecting Authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain 
authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of Alternative Investment Fund, from 
any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts. 
Submission of report to the Board. 
33. The Inspecting Authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit 
an inspection report to the Board:  
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report. 
Communication of findings, etc. to the Alternative Investment Fund. 
34. The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reasonable 
opportunity of hearing to the Alternative Investment Fund or its trustees, directors or 
manager issue such direction as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the 
investors including directions in the nature of :— 
(a) requiring an Alternative Investment Fund not to launch new schemes or raise money 
from investors for a particular period; 
(b) prohibiting the person concerned from disposing of any of the properties of the fund or 
scheme acquired in violation of these regulations; 
(c) requiring the person connected to dispose of the assets of the fund or scheme in a manner 
as may be specified in the directions;

[Page 80]
(d) requiring the person concerned to refund any money or the assets to the concerned 
investors along with the requisite interest or otherwise, collected under the scheme; 
(e) prohibiting the person concerned from op erating in the capital market or from accessing 
the capital market for a specified period. 
CHAPTER VI 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT  
Liability for action in case of default. 
35. (1) An Alternative Investment Fund which— 
(a) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations; 
(b) fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as an Alternative Investment 
Fund as required by the Board; 
(c) furnishes to the Board information which is false or misleading in any material 
particular; 
(d) does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board; 
(e) does not co -operate in any enquiry, inspection or investigation conducted by the 
Board; 
(f) fails to resolve the complaints of investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the 
Board in this behalf, 
shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.  
(2) Sub-regulation (1) shall not prejudice the powers of the Board to issue directions or 
measures under regulation 34 or under sections 11, 11B, 11D, sub -section (3) of section 
12 or section 24 or Chapter VIA of the Act or under any other law for the time being in 
force.

[Page 81]
209[CHAPTER VI-A 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
 
35A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or 
any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding 
twelve months, for furthering innovation 210[***] relating to testing new products, processes, 
services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities 
markets. 
 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub -regulation (1) shall be subject to the 
applicant satisfying s uch conditions as may be specified by the Board including 
conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. 
Explanation. —For  the  purposes  of  these Regulations ,  "regulatory  sandbox"  means  
a live testing environment  where  new products,  proce sses,  services, business models,  
etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, 
for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be 
specified by the Board.] 
 
CHAPTER VII 
MISCELLANEOUS  
Power of the Board to issue clarifications. 
36. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the 
Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars or issue separate 
circular or guidelines or framework for each category of Alternative Investment Funds.  
Delegation of powers. 
                                                      
209  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, 
w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 
210 The words “ in technological aspects ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulato ry 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021.

[Page 82]
37. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by any 
officer of the Board to whom such powers are delegated by the Bo ard by means of an order 
made under section 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 
 
 Amendments to other Regulations. 
38. The regulations specified in the Third Schedule to these regulations shall be amended in the 
manner and to the extent stated therein. 
Repeal and Saving. 
39. (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 
1996 hereby shall stand repealed. 
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal: 
(a) Anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken , 
including suspension or cancellation of certificate of registration, any inquiry or 
investigation commenced or show cause notice issued under the repealed 
regulations, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding 
provisions of  these regulations; 
(b) All venture capital funds or schemes launched by such venture capital funds prior to 
date of notification of these regulations shall continue to be governed by provisions 
of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regu lations, 
1996 till the fund or Scheme is wound up: 
Provided that such funds shall not launch any new Scheme after notification of 
these regulations; 
211[Provided further that the venture capital funds that seeks registration as a 
migrated venture capital fun d in terms of Chapter III -D shall be governed by these 
regulations from the date of grant of certificate of registration: 
                                                      
211 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 20-07-2024.

[Page 83]
Provided further that the Board may specify enhanced regulatory reporting and 
other measures for the venture capital funds that do not  seek registration as a 
migrated venture capital fund in terms of Chapter III-D.] 
(c) Any application made to the Board under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 and pending before it shall be 
deemed to have bee n made under the corresponding provisions of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012. 
(3) After the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) 
Regulations, 1996, any reference there to in any other regulations made, guidelines or 
circulars issued thereunder by the Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
corresponding provisions of these regulations.

[Page 84]
FIRST SCHEDULE-FORM 
FORM A 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 
See regulation 3 
Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration as Alternative Investment Fund 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, C4-A, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai 400051 - India 
 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1. This form is meant for use by the applicant for grant of certificate of registration as an 
Alternative Investment Fund. 
2. The applicant should complete this form, and submit it, along with all supporting documents 
to the Board at its head office at Mumbai. 
3. This application form should be filled in accordance with these regulations. 
4. The application shall be considered by the Board provided it is complete in all respects. 
5. All answers must be legible and all the pages must be numbered with signature/ s tamp on 
each page of the form. 
6. Information which needs to be supplied in more detail may be given on separate sheets which 
should be attached to the application form and appropriately numbered. 
7. The application must be signed and all signatures must be original. 
8. The application must be accompanied by an application fee as specified in the Second 
Schedule to these regulations. 
 
1. GENERAL INFORMATION 
(a) Name, address of the registered office, address for correspondence and principal place 
of business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the applicant. 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s). 
(c) Legal structure of applicant - Whether the applicant is a company or trust or limited 
liability partnership or a body corporate.  
(d) Date and place of incorporation/ establishment.

[Page 85]
212[(e) Category under which the application is made –  
1. Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Venture Capital Fund 
213[1A. Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Angel Fund] 
 
2. Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Social 214[Impact] Fund 
3. Category I Alternative Investment Fund- SME Fund 
4. Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Infrastructure Fund 
5. Category I Alternative Investment Fund - Special Situation Fund 
6. Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Other 
7. Category II Alternative Investment Fund  
8. Category III Alternative Investment Fund] 
9. 215[Specified Alternative Investment Fund as provided under Regulation 19 of 
these regulations: Corporate Debt Market Development Fund] 
(e) In case the applicant proposes to registe r as a Category III Alternative Investment 
Fund, whether the fund shall be open ended or close ended. 
(f) Whether the applicant or its associates or its sponsor(s) or its manager(s) is/ are 
registered with the Board, Reserve Bank of India or any other regulato ry authority in 
any capacity along with the details of its registration.  
(g) Details of infrastructure for conducting activities as an Alternative Investment Fund  
(h) Copy of the draft placement memorandum. 
 
2. DETAILS OF APPLICANT 
I. In case applicant is a Trust: 
1. Write-up on the activities of the applicant  
2. Whether the Trust Deed is registered under the provisions of the Registration 
Act, 1908. (Enclose relevant extract of the Registered Trust Deed) 
3. Whether the Trust Deed permits the carrying on of the activity of an 
Alternative Investment Fund  
4. Whether the applicant is prohibited by its trust deed from making an invitation 
to the public to subscribe to its units; 
                                                      
212 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of I ndia (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 24.01.2022 
213 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 09-09-2025. 
214 Substituted for the word “venture” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 25.07.2022. 
215 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023.

[Page 86]
5. Provide details of Trustees/ Trustee Company as below:  
a. Whether Trustee is an individual or a Trustee company.  
b. Name, registered office address, telephone number(s) and fax 
number(s) of the Trustees/ Trustee Company.  
c. Name, direct line number, mobile number and e -mail of the contact 
person(s). 
d. Identity and Address proof of Trustees/ Directors of the Trustee  
Company 
e. Whether the Trustee Company is registered with Board, Reserve Bank 
of India or any other regulatory authority in any capacity along with the 
details of its registration. 
f. Brief write up on the activities of the Trustee Company/ Profile of 
Trustees.  
 
II. In case applicant is a Company: 
1. Write-up on the activities of the applicant  
2. Shareholding pattern and profile of the directors (Enclose Identity proof and 
address proof of the directors) 
3. Whether the Memorandum of Association permits carrying on of the activity of 
an Alternative Investment Fund  (Enclose relevant extract of the Memorandum 
of Association) 
4. Whether the applicant is prohibited by its memorandum and articles of 
association from making an invitation to the public to subscribe to its 
securities; 
  
III. In case applicant is a limited liability partnership: 
1. Write-up on the activities of the applicant  
2. Beneficial ownership pattern and profile of the partners (Enclose Identity proof 
and address proof of the partners) 
3. Whether the partnership deed is 216[duly filed] under the provisions of the 
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 and permits carrying on of the activity 
of an Alternative Investment Fund (Enclose relevant extract of the Partnership 
Deed) 
4. Whether the applicant is prohibited  by its par tnership deed from making an 
invitation to the public to subscribe to its securities; 
 
IV. In case applicant is a Body Corporate 
1. Write-up on the activities of the applicant  
                                                      
216 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013, for the words “duly registered”.

[Page 87]
2. Shareholding pattern and profile of the directors (Enclose Identity proof and 
address proof of the directors) 
3. Whether the applicant is set up or established under the laws of the Central or 
State Legislature 
4. Whether the applicant is permitted carrying on of the activity of an Alternative 
Investment Fund  (Enclose relevant extract of the relevant Statute/Act) 
5. Whether the applicant is prohibited by its memorandum and articles of 
association from making an invitation to the public to subscribe to its 
securities; 
 
3.  DETAILS OF SPONSOR(S) (Sponsor shall be as defined in 217[clause (w) of sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 2]),  
(a) Name, address of registered office, address for correspondence and principal place of 
business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the sponsor. 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s). 
(c) Legal status of the sponsor (whether sponsor(s) is/are individual/company/limited 
liability partnership/body corporate) and date and place of incorporation/ 
establishment, wherever applicable. 
(d) In case of Sponsor being individual(s), provide a brief profile of the Sponsor including 
professional qualification. In case of Sponsor(s) being other than individual, write up 
on shareholding pattern/ Partnership interests and profile of the directors/partners 
including their professional qualification.  
(e) Identity proof and address proof of the Sponsor (if sponsor is an individual)/ directors 
of Sponsor(is sponsor is a company)/ partners of the Sponsor (if sponsor is an limited 
liability partnership). 
(f) Whether the Sponsor or its director(s)/ partner(s) is/are registered with the Board.  
(g) Details of past experience of the Sponsor(s) in advising or managing pools of capital 
or in fund or asset or wealth or portfolio management or in the business of buying, 
selling and dealing of securities or other financial assets. 
(h) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year 
(i) Whether, the Sponsor has floated any Alternative Investment Funds/ Venture Capital 
Funds previously, which are registered with the Board. If yes, details of the same. 
 
4. DETAILS OF MANAGER 
(a) Name, address of the registered office address for correspondence, telephone 
number(s), fax number(s), of the Manager(s). 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s). 
                                                      
217 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013, for the words, symbols and number “sub-regulation (w) of regulation 2”

[Page 88]
(c) Legal status of the Manager (whether Manager(s) is /are individual/company/limited 
liability partnership/body corporate) and date and place of incorporation/ 
establishment, wherever applicable. 
(d) Write up on the activities of the Manager including past experience in advising or 
managing pools of capital or i n fund or asset or wealth or portfolio management or in 
the business of buying, selling & dealing of securities or other financial assets. 
(e) Identity proof and address proof of the Manager (if manager is an individual)/ 
directors of Manager (if manager is a company)/ partners of the Manager (if manager 
is an limited liability partnership). 
(f) In case of Manager being a company or limited liability partnership, shareholding 
pattern /Partnership interests and profile of the directors /Partners  
(g) Brief profile of Ke y Investment Team including experience and professional 
qualification 
(h) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year 
(i) Whether, the Manager has managed/advised any Alternative Investment Funds/ 
Venture Capital Funds previously, which are registered with the Board. If yes, details 
of the same. 
 
5. DETAILS OF BUSINESS PLAN AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY 
(a) Investment objective and investment style/ strategy of the fund.  
(b) The target investors 
(c) The target industries/ sectors, if any 
(d) Proposed corpus 
(e) Proposed fees to the Sponsor and Manager 
(f) Tenure of the fund or scheme 
(g) Details of proposed use of leverage in case of Category III Alternative Investment 
Fund 
 
6. DETAILS OF REGULATORY ACTION TAKEN IN THE PAST, IF ANY 
(a) Whether the applicant or Sponsor or its directors/  partners or Manager or its Directors/ 
Partners or Trustees/ Trustee Company or its directors are/ were involved in any 
litigation connected with the securities market and any order has/ had been passed 
against them for violation of securities laws. (If Ye s, provide details. If No, enclose a 
declaration to that effect). 
(b) Whether the applicant/ Sponsor/ Trustee/ Manager or its directors or Partners or 
employees are / have been involved in any litigation connected with the securities 
market which may have an a dverse bearing on the business of the applicant or any 
order has/ had been passed against them for violation of securities laws. (If Yes, 
provide details. If No, enclose a declaration to that effect).

[Page 89]
(c) Whether applicant/ Sponsor/ Trustee/ Manager or its dir ectors or Partners has/ have 
been refused a certificate by the Board or its/ their certificate has been suspended at 
any time prior to this application. (If Yes, provide details. If No, enclose a declaration 
to that effect). 
 
7. OTHER INFORMATION/DECLARATIONS 
 
(a) Amount contributed/ proposed to be contributed by the Sponsor(s)/Manager(s) as per 
clause (d) of regulation 10 along with details of the same. (Provide copies of 
commitment letters from the sponsor(s)/manager(s)). 
(b) Whether the applicant, Sponsor and Manag er are fit and proper persons based on the 
criteria specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008; (Enclose a declaration to that effect). 
(c) Declaration that the applicant shall comply with the provisions of regulation 10 with 
respect to investment in the Alternative Investment Fund.  
(d) Declaration that the applicant shall comply with the provisions of regulation 15 and 16 
with respect to general investment conditions and conditions for the applicable 
category. 
 
DECLARATION STATEMENT (TO BE GIVEN AS BELOW) 
 
We hereby agree and declare that the information supplied in the application, including the 
attachment sheets, is complete and true. 
AND we further agree that, we shall notify the Securities and Exchange Board of I ndia 
immediately any change in the information provided in the application. 
We further agree that we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India Act, 1992, and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Invest ment 
Funds) Regulations, 2012, and Government of India guidelines/instructions as may be 
announced by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 
We further agree that as a condition of registration, we shall abide by such operational 
instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time 
to time. 
 
 
For and on behalf of____________________________________________________ 
(Name of the applicant) 
 
Authorized signatory

[Page 90]
(Signature) 
 
FORM B 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 
See regulation 6 
Certificate of registration as Alternative Investment Fund 
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and 
Exchange Boar d of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), read with the regulations made 
thereunder, the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to 
_______________________________________________________________ 
as an Alternative Investment Fund subject to the conditio ns specified in the Act and in 
the regulations made thereunder. 
 
II. The Category of the Alternative Investment Fund shall be -
__________________________________________. 
III. The Registration Number of the Alternative Investment Fund is  
IN/AIF/Category__/_____________. 
 
 
 
Date : 
Place : MUMBAI 
By Order 
Sd/- 
 
For and on behalf of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
______________________________________________________________________

[Page 91]
SECOND SCHEDULE 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 
See 218[sub-regulation (5) of regulation 3, sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6, sub-regulation (2) 
of regulation 12 and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 17A]  
 
FEES 
219[PART A 
AMOUNT TO BE PAID AS FEES 
 
Application fee  `1,00,000 
Registration fee  for Category I Alternative 
Investment Funds other than Angel Funds 
` 5,00,000 
Registration fee for Category II Alternative 
Investment Funds 
`10,00,000 
Registration fee for Category III Alternative 
Investment Funds 
`15,00,000 
Scheme Fee  for Alternative Investment 
Funds 220[***] 
`1,00,000 
221[Fee for filing shelf placement 
memorandum for launching Co -investment 
schemes 
`1,00,000] 
222[***]  
                                                      
218 Substituted for the words and symbols “ sub-regulation (5) of reg ulation 3, sub-regulation (2) of regulation  6 and 
sub-regulation (2) of regulation 12 ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 09-09-2025. 
219 Substituted by the Securities and E xchange Board of India  (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
(w.e.f  23.05.2014). Prior to its substitution,  the Second Schedule, Part A as amended by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulat ions, 2013, w.e.f. 16 -09-2013, read 
as under: 
"PART A 
AMOUNT TO BE PAID AS FEES 
Application fee `` 1,00,000 
Registration fee for Alternative Investment Funds 
other than Angel Funds   ` ` 5,00,000 
Registration fees for Angel Funds  ` 2,00,000 
Scheme Fee for Alternative Investment Funds other 
than Angel Funds   ` 1,00,000 
Re-registration Fee ` 1,00,000 
 
220 The words “other than Angel Funds” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 09-09-2025. 
221 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 09-09-2025.

[Page 92]
Registration Fee for Angel Funds ` 2,00,000 
223[Fee for refiling placement memorandum 
of Angel  Fund under regulation 19D(7) of 
these regulations 
`1,00,000] 
224[Registration fee for Corporate Debt 
Market Development Fund (specified 
Alternative Investment Fund as provided 
under Regulation 19 of these regulations) 
₹5,00,000] 
                                                                                                                                        ]  
 
PART B 
225[The fees specified above shall be payable by way of direct credit into the bank account 
through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other 
mode as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
___________________________________________________________________ 
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
222 The words “Re-registration Fee: ₹1,00,000” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 20-07-2024. 
223 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 09-09-2025. 
224 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
225 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 01 -04-
2023. Prior to its substitution, it read as under: 
“The fees specified above shall be payable *[by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS 
or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by bank draft in favour o f “The Securities and Exchange Board of India” at 
Mumbai.” 
*[Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 6 -3-2017.]

[Page 93]
Third Schedule 
[see regulation 38] 
1. Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure) Regulations, 2009.  
(i) In regulation 2, in sub -regulation (1), in clause (zd),in sub -clause (i) after the words 
“venture capital fund” and before the words “and”, the words “, Alternative 
Investment Fund” shall be inserted; 
(ii) In regulation 37, in the proviso, clause (b) shall be substituted with the following 
namely, — 
“(b)  equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of 
category I or a foreign venture capital investor: 
Provided that such equity s hares shall be locked in for a period of at least one year 
from the date of purchase by the venture capital fund or alternative investment fund 
or foreign venture capital investor.” 
 
2. Amendment to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capi tal 
Investors) Regulations, 2000, - 
(i) In regulation 2,  
(a) clause (l) shall be substituted with the following namely, — 
“(l) “Venture Capital Fund” means a fund registered with the Board under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) R egulations, 
1996 or under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 in the sub -category of “Venture Capital 
Fund’ under Category I Alternative Investment Fund.” 
 
(b) clause (m) shall be substituted with the following namely, — 
“(m) “Venture Capital undertaking” means a venture capital undertaking as 
defined under clause(aa) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 
2012.” 
 
(c) In sub-regulation (2), after the words “Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996” the words and numbers “or 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
Regulation, 2012” shall be inserted. 
 
(ii) In r egulation 4, in sub -regulation  (1), clause (e) after the words “venture capital 
fund” the words “or Alternative Investment Fund” shall be inserted:

[Page 94]
(iii) In regulation 11, in clause (b), after the words “venture capital fund”, the words “ or 
alternative investment fund” shall be inserted; 
(iv) In regulation 11, in clause (c), the words “venture capital undertaking” wherever 
occurring shall be replaced with the words “venture capital undertaking or investee 
company as defined in clause (o) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulation, 2012”. 
 
3. Amendments to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisitions of 
Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 2011. 
(i) In regulation 2, in sub -regulation (1), in clause (q),in sub -clause (2) after item (viii) 
the following new item shall be inserted namely, — 
“(viiia) an alternative investment fund and its sponsor, trustees, trustee company and 
manager;” 
 
(ii) In regulation 10, in sub -regulation (4), in clau se (f) the words “venture capital fund” 
wherever occurring shall be replaced with the words “venture capital fund or 
Category I Alternative Investment Fund”. 
 
226[Fourth Schedule 
SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 
[Regulation 20(1) and 20(9)] 
 
1. Code of Conduct for Alternative Investment Funds 
An Alternative Investment Fund shall: 
(a) carry out its business activities and invest in accordance with the investment 
objectives stated in the placement memorandum and other fund documents.  
(b) be o perated and managed in the interest of all investors and not only in the 
interest of the sponsor, manager, directors or partners of the sponsor and manager or a 
select class of investors.   
(c) ensure the dissemination of adequate, accurate, explicit and t imely information in 
accordance with these Regulations to all investors.  
(d) ensure the dissemination of any other information as agreed with the investors.  
(e) ensure that an effective risk management process and appropriate internal controls 
are in place. 
                                                      
226 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021.

[Page 95]
(f) have written policies and procedures to identify, monitor and appropriately 
mitigate any potential conflict of interest through-out the scope of its business.  
(g) not use any unethical means to sell, market or induce any investor to buy its units.  
(h) have written policies and procedures to comply with anti-money laundering laws. 
 
2. Code of Conduct for the Managers of Alternative Investment Funds and key 
management personnel of Managers and Alternative Investment Funds 
 
Every Manager of Alternative Investment Funds and key management personnel of the 
manager and Alternative Investment Funds shall: 
(a) abide by the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines and Circulars as applicable to 
Alternative Investment Funds at all times; 
(b) maintain integrity, highest ethical and professional standards in all its dealings; 
(c) ensure proper care and exercise due diligence and independent professional 
judgment in all its decisions;  
(d) act in a fiduciary capacity towards investors of the Alternative Investment Fund 
and ensure that decisions are taken in the interest of the investors; 
(e) abide by the policies of the Alternative Investment Fund to identify, monitor and 
appropriately mitigate any potential conflict of interest throughout the scope of its business; 
(f) not make any misleading or inaccurate statement, whether oral or written, either 
about their qualifications or capability to render investment management services or their 
achievements; 
(g) record in writing, the investment, divestment and other key decisi ons, together 
with appropriate justification for such decisions;  
(h) provide appropriate and well considered inputs, which are not misleading, as 
required by the valuer to carry out appropriate valuation of the portfolio; 
(i) not enter into arrangements f or sale or purchase of securities, where there is no 
effective change in beneficial interest or where the transfer of beneficial interest is only 
between parties who are acting in concert or collusion, other than for bona fide and legally 
valid reasons; 
(j) abide by confidentiality agreements with the investors and not make improper use 
of the details of personal investments and/or other information of investors;  
(k) not offer or accept any inducement in connection with the affairs of or business of 
managing the funds of investors; 
(l) document all relevant correspondence and understanding during a deal with 
counterparties as per the records of the Alternative Investment Fund, if they have 
committed to the transactions on behalf of Alternative Investment Fund;

[Page 96]
(m) maintain ethical standards of conduct and deal fairly and honestly with investee 
companies at all times; and 
(n) maintain confidentiality of information received from investee companies and 
companies seeking investments from Alternative Investment Fund, unless explicit 
confirmation is received that such information is not subject to any non -disclosure 
agreement. 
 
3. Code of Conduct for members of the Investment Committee, trustee, trustee 
company, directors of the trustee company, directors or designat ed partners of the 
Alternative Investment Fund 
 
Members of the Investment Committee, trustee, trustee company, directors of the trustee 
company, directors or designated partners of the Alternative Investment Fund shall: 
(a) maintain integrity and the highest ethical and professional standards of conduct;  
(b) ensure proper care and exercise due diligence and independent professional 
judgment in carrying out their roles;  
(c) disclose details of any conflict of interest relating to any/all decisions in a tim ely 
manner to the Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund, adhere with the policies and 
procedures of the Alternative Investment Fund with respect to any conflict of interest and 
wherever necessary, recuse themselves from the decision making process; 
(d) maintain confidentiality of information received regarding the Alternative 
Investment Fund, its investors and investee companies; unless explicit confirmation is 
received that such information is not subject to any non-disclosure agreement. 
(e) not indul ge in any unethical practice or professional misconduct or any act, 
whether by omission or commission, which tantamount to gross negligence or fraud.] 
 
***

[Page 97]
Note: 
 
1. The   Securities   and   Exchange   Board   of   India (Alternative   Investment   
Funds) Regulations, 2012 was published in the Gazette of India on May 21, 2012 vide 
notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2012-13/04/11262. 
2. The   Securities   and   Exchange   Board   of   India (Alternative   Investment   
Funds) Regulations, 2012 was amended on – 
(a) 16th September, 2013 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 vide notification No. LAD-
NRO/GN/2013-14/24/6573. 
(b) 23rd May, 2014 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of F ees) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2014 vide notification No. LAD -NRO/GN/2014-
15/03/1089. 
(c) 26th September, 2014 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 
Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 vide  notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-
15/11/1576. 
(d) 14th August, 2015 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2015-16/011. 
(e) 4th January, 2017 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/026. 
(f) 6th March, 2017 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees 
and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/037. 
(g) 1st June, 2018 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2018/19. 
(h) 10th May, 2019 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternat ive 
Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2019/16.

[Page 98]
(i) 17th April, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2020/10. 
(j) 19th October, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2020/37. 
(k) 8th January, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2021/01. 
(l) 5th May, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/21. 
(m) 3rd August, 2021 by the (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 
vide notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/30. 
(n) 3rd August, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulation s, 2021 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/33. 
(o) 13th August, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide notification No. 
SEBI.LAD-NRO/GN/2021/41. 
(p) 9th November, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/57. 
(q) 24th January, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Am endment) Regulations, 2022 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/68. 
(r) 16th March, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/75.

[Page 99]
(s) 25th July, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/89. 
(t) 15th November 2022, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/105. 
(u) 9th January 2023, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/113. 
(v) 18th January 2023, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in 
Control in Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/115. 
(w) 7th February 2023, by the Securities and Exchange Board of I ndia (Payment of 
Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide notification 
No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/121. 
(x) 15th June 2023, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/132. 
(y) 3rd July 2023, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute 
Resolution Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/137. 
(z) 17th August 2023, by the Securi ties and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide 
notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/146. 
(aa) 5th January 2024, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (A mendment) Regulations, 2024 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/163. 
(bb) 25th April 2024, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/168.

[Page 100]
(cc) 18th July, 2024, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/194. 
(dd) 6th August, 2024, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/198. 
(ee) 18th November, 2024, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) ( Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/209. 
(ff) 10th February, 2025, by the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Investor 
Charter) ( Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2025/228. 
(gg) 23rd May 2025, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alt ernative 
Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/248. 
(hh) 9th September 2025, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 v ide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/265. 
(ii) 19th November 2025, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) ( Third Amendment) Regulations, 2025 v ide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/274. 
(jj) 18th April 2026, by the Securities and Excha nge Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 202 6 vide notification  No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2026/303. 
 
*** 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations]
