[Page 1]
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(PROHIBITION OF INSIDER TRADING) REGULATIONS, 2015 
Amended upto  March 12, 2025 
No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/21/85.- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read with 
clause (g) of sub-section (2) of section 11 and clause (d) and clause (e) of section 12A of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes the 
following regulations, to put in place a framework for prohibition of insider trading in securities 
and to strengthen the legal framework thereof, namely:— 
 
CHAPTER – I 
 
PRELIMINARY 
 
Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015. 
 
(2) These regulations shall come into force on the one hundred and twentieth day from the 
date of its publication in the Official Gazette. 
 
Definitions. 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words, 
expressions and derivations therefrom shall have the meanings assigned to them as under:–  
 
(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
 
(b) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India; 
 
(c)  “compliance officer” means any senior officer, designated so and reporting to the 
board of directors or head of the organization in case board is not there, who is 
financially literate and is capable of appreciating requirements for legal and regulatory

[Page 2]
compliance under these regulations and who shall be responsible for compliance of 
policies, procedures, maintenance of records, monitoring adherence to the rules for the 
preservation of unpublished price sensitive information, monitoring of trades and the 
implementation of the codes specified in these regulations under the overall supervision 
of the board of directors of the listed company or the head of an organization, as the case 
may be. 
 
1[Explanation – For the purpose of this regulation, “financially literate” shall mean a 
person who has the ability to read and understand basic financial statements i.e. balance 
sheet, profit and loss account, and statement of cash flows]; 
 
(d) "connected person" means,- 
2[(i) any person who is or has been, during the six months prior to the concerned 
act, associated with a company, in any capacity, directly or indirectly, including 
by reason of frequent communication with its officers or by being in any 
contractual, fiduciary or employment relationship or by being a director, officer or 
an employee of the company or holds any position including a professional or 
business relationship, whether temporary or permanent, with the company, that 
allows such a person, directly or indirectly, access to unpublished price sensitive 
information or is reasonably expected to allow such access.] 
 
(ii) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the persons falling within 
the following categories shall be deemed to be connected persons unless the 
contrary is established, -  
                                                           
1 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
2 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. December 06, 2024). Prior to substitution, sub-regulation (i) read as follows: -  
     “(i) any person who is or has during the six months prior to the concerned act been associated with a 
company, directly or indirectly, in any capacity including by reason of frequent communication with its 
officers or by being in any contractual, fiduciary or employment relationship or by being a director, officer 
or an employee of the company or holds any position including a professional or business relationship 
between himself and the company whether temporary or permanent, that allows such person, directly or 
indirectly, access to unpublished price sensitive information or is reasonably expected to allow such 
access.”

[Page 3]
(a). 3[a] relative of connected persons specified in clause (i); or  
(b). a holding company or associate company or subsidiary company; or 
(c). an intermediary as specified in section 12 of the Act or an employee or 
director thereof; or  
(d). an investment company, trustee company, asset management company or 
an employee or director thereof; or  
(e). an official of a stock exchange or of clearing house or corporation; or 
(f). a member of board of trustees of a mutual fund or a member of the board 
of directors of the asset management company of a mutual fund or is an 
employee thereof; or  
(g). a member of the board of directors or an employee, of a public financial 
institution as defined in section 2 (72) of the Companies Act, 2013; or 
(h). an official or an employee of a self-regulatory organization recognised or 
authorized by the Board; or 
(i). a banker of the company; or 
(j). a concern, firm, trust, Hindu undivided family, company or association of 
persons wherein a director of a company or his 4[***] relative or banker of 
the company, has more than ten per cent. of the holding or interest; 5[or] 
6[(k).   a firm or its partner or its employee in which a connected person specified    
in sub-clause (i) of clause (d) is also a partner; or  
(l). a person sharing household or residence with a connected person specified 
in sub-clause (i) of clause (d);] 
 
NOTE: It is intended that a connected person is one who has a connection with 
the company that is expected to put him in possession of unpublished price sensitive 
                                                           
3 Substituted for “an immediate” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. December 06, 2024). 
 
4 The word “immediate” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. December 06, 2024).  
5 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. December 06, 2024). 
6 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. December 06, 2024).

[Page 4]
information. 7[Relatives] and other categories of persons specified above are also 
presumed to be connected persons but such a presumption is a deeming legal fiction and 
is rebuttable. This definition is also intended to bring into its ambit persons who may 
8[***]seemingly 9[not] occupy any position in a company but are in regular touch with 
the company and its officers and are involved in the know of  the company’s operations. 
It is intended to bring within its ambit those who would have access to or could access 
unpublished price sensitive information about any company or class of companies by 
virtue of any connection that would put them in possession of unpublished price sensitive 
information.  
 
(e) "generally available information" means information that is accessible to the 
public on a non-discriminatory basis 10[and shall not include unverified event or 
information reported in print or electronic media]; 
 
NOTE: It is intended to define what constitutes generally available information so 
that it is easier to crystallize and appreciate what 11[constitutes] unpublished price 
sensitive information 12[***].  Information published on the website of a stock exchange, 
would ordinarily be considered generally available.   
 
(f)  “immediate relative” means a spouse of a person, and includes parent, sibling, and 
child of such person or of the spouse, any of whom is either dependent financially on 
such person, or consults such person in taking decisions relating to trading in securities; 
 
                                                           
7 Substituted for “Immediate relatives” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. December 06, 2024). 
8 The word “not” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. December 06, 2024).  
9 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. December 06, 2024).  
10 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 18.05.2024. 
11 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 18.05.2024. 
12 The word “is” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 18.05.2024.

[Page 5]
13[***]  
 
(g) "insider" means any person who is: 
 
i)  a connected person; or  
 
ii)  in possession of or having access to unpublished price sensitive 
information;  
 
14[NOTE:    Since "generally available information" is defined, it is intended that anyone 
in possession of or having access to unpublished price sensitive information should be 
considered as an "insider" regardless of the manner in which one came into possession 
of or had access to such information. Various circumstances are provided to enable such 
a person to demonstrate that he has not indulged in insider trading. Therefore, this 
definition is intended to bring within its reach any person who is in receipt of or has 
access to unpublished price sensitive information. The onus of showing that a certain 
person was in possession of or had access to unpublished price sensitive information at 
the time of trading would, therefore, be on the person leveling the charge after which the 
person who has traded when in possession of or having access to unpublished price 
sensitive information may demonstrate that he was not in such possession or that he has 
not traded or he could not access or that his trading when in possession of such 
information was squarely covered by the exonerating circumstances.”] 
                                                           
13 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. December 06, 2024) which prior to its omission, read as follows: 
“NOTE:  It is intended that the immediate relatives of a “connected person” too become connected persons for 
purposes of these regulations. Indeed, this is a rebuttable presumption.”  
14 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. December 06, 2024). Prior to substitution, it read as follows: -  
“Note: Since “generally available information” is defined, it is intended that anyone in possession of or having 
access to unpublished price sensitive information should be considered an “insider” regardless of how one came in 
possession of or had access to such information. Various circumstances are provided for such a person to 
demonstrate that he has not indulged in insider trading. Therefore, this definition is intended to bring within its 
reach any person who is in receipt of or has access to unpublished price sensitive information. The onus of 
showing that a certain person was in possession of or had access to unpublished price sensitive information at the 
time of trading would, therefore, be on the person leveling the charge after which the person who has traded when 
in possession of or having access to unpublished price sensitive information may demonstrate that he was not in 
such possession or that he has not traded or or he could not access or that his trading when in possession of such 
information was squarely covered by the exonerating circumstances.”

[Page 6]
(h) "promoter" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
15[2018] or any modification thereof; 
 
16[(ha)  "promoter group" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 or 
any modification thereof;] 
 
17[(18[hb]) “proposed to be listed” shall include securities of an unlisted company: 
(i) if such unlisted company has filed offer documents or other documents, as the 
case may be, with the Board, stock exchange(s) or registrar of companies in 
connection with the listing; or  
(ii) if such unlisted company is getting listed pursuant to any merger or 
amalgamation and has filed a copy of such scheme of merger or amalgamation 
under the Companies Act, 2013;] 
 
19[(hc) “relative” shall mean the following:  
(i) spouse of the person;  
(ii) parent of the person and parent of its spouse;  
(iii) sibling of the person and sibling of its spouse;  
(iv) child of the person and child of its spouse;  
(v) spouse of the person listed at sub-clause (iii); and  
(vi) spouse of the person listed at sub-clause (iv)  
 
                                                           
15 Substituted for the number “2009” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)   
16 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019) 
17 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
18 Re-numbered by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019) 
19 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. December 06, 2024).

[Page 7]
NOTE: It is intended that the relatives of a “connected person” too become connected 
persons for the purpose of these regulations. It is a rebuttable presumption that a 
connected person had UPSI.] 
 
(i) "securities" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or any modification thereof 20[***];  
 
(j) "specified" means specified by the Board in writing; 
 
(k) “takeover regulations” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 and any 
amendments thereto; 
 
(l) "trading" means and includes subscribing, 21[redeeming, switching,] buying, 
selling, dealing, or agreeing to subscribe, 22[redeem, switch,]  buy, sell, deal in any 
securities, and "trade" shall be construed accordingly ; 
 
NOTE: Under the parliamentary mandate, since the Section 12A (e) and Section 
15G of the Act employs the term 'dealing in securities', it is intended to widely define the 
term “trading” to include dealing. Such a construction is intended to curb the activities 
based on unpublished price sensitive information which are strictly not buying, selling or 
subscribing, such as pledging etc when in possession of unpublished price sensitive 
information.   
 
(m) “trading day” means a day on which the recognized stock exchanges are open for 
trading; 
 
                                                           
20 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 (w.e.f. November 1, 2024)  
21 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 (w.e.f. November 1, 2024)  
22 Ibid.

[Page 8]
(n) "unpublished price sensitive information" means any information, relating to a 
company or its securities, directly or indirectly, that is not generally available which upon 
becoming generally available, is likely to materially affect the price of the securities and 
shall, ordinarily including but not restricted to, information relating to the following: – 
 
(i) financial results; 
 
(ii) dividends; 
 
(iii) change in capital structure;  
 
(iv) mergers, de-mergers, acquisitions, delistings, disposals and expansion of business 
23[, award or termination of order/contracts not in the normal course of business] 
and such other transactions;  
(v) changes in key managerial personnel 24[, other than due to superannuation or end 
of term, and resignation of a Statutory Auditor or Secretarial Auditor;] 
25[(vi) change in rating(s), other than ESG rating(s); 
 
(vii) fund raising proposed to be undertaken; 
 
(viii) agreements, by whatever name called, which may impact the management or 
control of the company; 
 
(ix) fraud or defaults by the company, its promoter, director, key managerial 
personnel, or subsidiary or arrest of key managerial personnel, promoter or 
director of the company, whether occurred within India or abroad; 
 
                                                           
23 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 (w.e.f. June 10, 2025). 
24 Substituted for “; and”  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 (w.e.f. June 10, 2025).  
25 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 (w.e.f. June 10, 2025).

[Page 9]
(x) resolution plan/ restructuring or one-time settlement in relation to 
loans/borrowings from banks/financial institutions; 
 
(xi) admission of winding-up petition filed by any party /creditors and admission of 
application by the Tribunal filed by the corporate applicant or financial creditors 
for initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process against the company as a 
corporate debtor, approval of resolution plan or rejection thereof under the 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016; 
 
(xii) initiation of forensic audit, by whatever name called, by the company or any other 
entity for detecting mis-statement in financials, misappropriation/ siphoning or 
diversion of funds and receipt of final forensic audit report; 
 
(xiii) action(s) initiated or orders passed within India or abroad, by any regulatory, 
statutory, enforcement authority or judicial body against the company or its 
directors, key managerial personnel, promoter or subsidiary, in relation to the 
company; 
 
(xiv) outcome of any litigation(s) or dispute(s) which may have an impact on the 
company; 
 
(xv) giving of guarantees or indemnity or becoming a surety, by whatever named 
called, for any third party, by the company not in the normal course of business; 
 
(xvi) granting, withdrawal, surrender, cancellation or suspension of key licenses or 
regulatory approvals. 
 
Explanation 1- For the purpose of sub-clause (ix): 
a. ‘Fraud’ shall have the same meaning as referred to  in Regulation 2(1)(c) of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and 
Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003.

[Page 10]
b. ‘Default’ shall have the same meaning as referred to in Clause 6 of 
paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015. 
Explanation 2- For identification of events enumerated in this clause as 
unpublished price sensitive information, the guidelines for materiality referred at 
paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III of  the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as 
may be specified by the Board from time to time and materiality as referred at 
paragraph B of Part A of Schedule III of  the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015  shall 
be applicable.] 
 
26[***].  
 
NOTE: It is intended that information relating to a company or securities, that is 
not generally available would be unpublished price sensitive information if it is likely to 
materially affect the price upon coming into the public domain. The types of matters that 
would ordinarily give rise to unpublished price sensitive information have been listed 
above to give illustrative guidance of unpublished price sensitive information.  
 
(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996) or the Companies 
Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and rules and regulations made thereunder shall have the meanings 
respectively assigned to them in those legislation. 
 
CHAPTER – II  
                                                           
26 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as follows: 
“(vi) material events in accordance with the listing agreement”

[Page 11]
RESTRICTIONS ON COMMUNICATION AND TRADING BY INSIDERS 
 
Communication or procurement of unpublished price sensitive information. 
3. (1) No insider shall communicate, provide, or allow access to any unpublished price 
sensitive information, relating to a company or securities listed or proposed to be listed, to any 
person including other insiders except where such communication is in furtherance of legitimate 
purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations.  
 
NOTE: This provision is intended to cast an obligation on all insiders who are essentially 
persons in possession of unpublished price sensitive information to handle such information with 
care and to deal with the information with them when transacting their business strictly on a 
need-to-know basis.  It is also intended to lead to organisations developing practices based on 
need-to-know principles for treatment of information in their possession. 
 
(2) No person shall procure from or cause the communication by any insider of unpublished 
price sensitive information, relating to a company or securities listed or proposed to be listed, 
except in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal 
obligations. 
 
NOTE: This provision is intended to impose a prohibition on unlawfully procuring 
possession of unpublished price sensitive information.  Inducement and procurement of 
unpublished price sensitive information not in furtherance of one’s legitimate duties and 
discharge of obligations would be illegal under this provision. 
 
27[(2A)  The board of directors of a listed company shall make a policy for determination 
of “legitimate purposes” as a part of “Codes of Fair Disclosure and Conduct” formulated under 
regulation 8. 
 
                                                           
27 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019).

[Page 12]
Explanation – For the purpose of illustration, the term “legitimate purpose” shall include sharing 
of unpublished price sensitive information in the ordinary course of business by an insider with 
partners, collaborators, lenders, customers, suppliers, merchant bankers, legal advisors, auditors, 
insolvency professionals or other advisors or consultants, provided that such sharing has not been 
carried out to evade or circumvent the prohibitions of these regulations.] 
 
28[(2B)  Any person in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information pursuant to a 
“legitimate purpose” shall be considered an “insider” for purposes of these regulations and due 
notice shall be given to such persons to maintain confidentiality of such unpublished price 
sensitive information in compliance with these regulations.] 
  
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, an unpublished price sensitive 
information may be communicated, provided, allowed access to or procured, in connection with 
a transaction that would:– 
 
(i) entail an obligation to make an open offer under the takeover regulations where 
the board of directors of the 29[listed] company is of informed opinion that 30[sharing of 
such information] is in the best interests of the company; 
 
NOTE: It is intended to acknowledge the necessity of communicating, providing, 
allowing access to or procuring UPSI for substantial transactions such as takeovers, 
mergers and acquisitions involving trading in securities and change of control to assess a 
potential investment.  In an open offer under the takeover regulations, not only would the 
same price be made available to all shareholders of the company but also all information 
necessary to enable an informed divestment or retention decision by the public 
shareholders is required to be made available to all shareholders in the letter of offer 
under those regulations.   
                                                           
28 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
29 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
30 Substituted for the words “the proposed transaction” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019).

[Page 13]
(ii) not attract the obligation to make an open offer under the takeover regulations but 
where the board of directors of the 31[listed] company is of informed opinion 32[that 
sharing of such information] is in the best interests of the company and the information 
that constitute unpublished price sensitive information is disseminated to be made 
generally available at least two trading days prior to the proposed transaction being 
effected in such form as the board of directors may determine 33[to be adequate and fair 
to cover all relevant and material facts]. 
 
NOTE: It is intended to permit communicating, providing, allowing access to or 
procuring UPSI also in transactions that do not entail an open offer obligation under the 
takeover regulations 34[when authorised by the board of directors if sharing of such 
information] is in the best interests of the company. The board of directors, however, 
would cause public disclosures of such unpublished price sensitive information well 
before the proposed transaction to rule out any information  asymmetry in the market. 
 
(4) For purposes of sub-regulation (3), the board of directors shall require the parties to 
execute agreements to contract confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations on the part of such 
parties and such parties shall keep information so received confidential, except for the purpose of 
sub-regulation (3), and shall not otherwise trade in securities of the company when in possession 
of unpublished price sensitive information. 
 
35[(5) The board of directors or head(s) of the organisation of every person required to handle 
unpublished price sensitive information shall ensure that a structured digital database is 
                                                           
31 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
32 Substituted for the words “that the proposed transaction” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
33 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
34 Substituted for the words “if it” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
35 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020). Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation 5 read as follows: -

[Page 14]
maintained containing the nature of unpublished price sensitive information and the names of 
such persons who have shared the information and also the names of such persons with whom 
information is shared under this regulation along with the Permanent Account Number or any 
other identifier authorized by law where Permanent Account Number is not available. Such 
database shall not be outsourced and shall be maintained internally with adequate internal 
controls and checks such as time stamping and audit trails to ensure non-tampering of the 
database.] 
36[Provided that entry of information, not emanating from within the organisation, in structured 
digital database may be done not later than 2 calendar days from the receipt of such information.] 
 
37[(6) The board of directors or head(s) of the organisation of every person required to handle 
unpublished price sensitive information shall ensure that the structured digital database is 
preserved for a period of not less than eight years after completion of the relevant transactions 
and in the event of receipt of any information from the Board regarding any investigation or 
enforcement proceedings, the relevant information in the structured digital database shall be 
preserved till the completion of such proceedings.] 
 
 
Trading when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information. 
4. (1) No insider shall trade in securities that are listed or proposed to be listed on a 
stock exchange when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information: 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                           
“The board of directors shall ensure that a structured digital database is maintained containing the names of such 
persons or entities as the case may be with whom information is shared under this regulation along with the 
Permanent Account Number or any other identifier authorized by law where Permanent Account Number is not 
available. Such databases shall be maintained with adequate internal controls and checks such as time stamping and 
audit trails to ensure non-tampering of the database.” 
Earlier, sub-regulation 5 was inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). 
36 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 (w.e.f. June 10, 2025). 
37 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020).

[Page 15]
38[Explanation –When a person who has traded in securities has been in possession of 
unpublished price sensitive information, his trades would be presumed to have been motivated 
by the knowledge and awareness of such information in his possession.] 
 
 Provided that the insider may prove his innocence by demonstrating the circumstances 
including the following: – 
 
(i) the transaction is an off-market inter-se transfer between 39[insiders] who were in 
possession of the same unpublished price sensitive information without being in breach 
of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade decision. 
 
40[Provided that such unpublished price sensitive information was not obtained under 
sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3 of these regulations. 
 
Provided further that such off-market trades shall be reported by the insiders to the 
company within two working days. Every company shall notify the particulars of such 
trades to the stock exchange on which the securities are listed within two trading days 
from receipt of the disclosure or from becoming aware of such information.]; 
 
41[(ii) the transaction was carried out through the block deal window mechanism between 
persons who were in possession of the unpublished price sensitive information without 
being in breach of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade 
decision; 
Provided that such unpublished price sensitive information was not obtained by either 
person under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3 of these regulations. 
  
                                                           
38 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
39 Substituted for the word “promoters” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
40 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
41 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)

[Page 16]
(iii) the transaction in question was carried out pursuant to a statutory or regulatory 
obligation to carry out a bona fide transaction.  
 
(iv) the transaction in question was undertaken pursuant to the exercise of stock options 
in respect of which the exercise price was pre-determined in compliance with applicable 
regulations.] 
 
(v) in the case of non-individual insiders: –  
 
(a)  the individuals who were in possession of such unpublished price sensitive 
information were different from the individuals taking trading decisions and such 
decision-making individuals were not in possession of such unpublished price 
sensitive information when they took the decision to trade; and 
 
(b) appropriate and adequate arrangements were in place to ensure that these 
regulations are not violated and no unpublished price sensitive information was 
communicated by the individuals possessing the information to the individuals 
taking trading decisions and there is no evidence of such arrangements having 
been breached; 
 
(vi) the trades were pursuant to a trading plan set up in accordance with regulation 5. 
 
NOTE: When a person who has traded in securities has been in possession of 
unpublished price sensitive information, his trades would be presumed to have been 
motivated by the knowledge and awareness of such information in his possession. The 
reasons for which he trades or the purposes to which he applies the proceeds of the 
transactions are not intended to be relevant for determining whether a person has 
violated the regulation. He traded when in possession of unpublished price sensitive 
information is what would need to be demonstrated at the outset to bring a charge. Once 
this is established, it would be open to the insider to prove his innocence by

[Page 17]
demonstrating the circumstances mentioned in the proviso, failing which he would have 
violated the prohibition. 
 
(2)  In the case of connected persons the onus of establishing, that they were not in possession 
of unpublished price sensitive information, shall be on such connected persons and in other 
cases, the onus would be on the Board.  
 
(3) The Board may specify such standards and requirements, from time to time, as it may 
deem necessary for the purpose of these regulations. 
 
Trading Plans. 
5. (1) An insider shall be entitled to formulate a trading plan and present it to the 
compliance officer for approval and public disclosure pursuant to which trades may be carried 
out on his behalf in accordance with such plan.  
 
NOTE: This provision intends to give an option to persons who may be perpetually in 
possession of unpublished price sensitive information and enabling them to trade in securities in 
a compliant manner.  This provision would enable the formulation of a trading plan by an 
insider to enable him to plan for trades to be executed in future.  By doing so, the possession of 
unpublished price sensitive information when a trade under a trading plan is actually executed 
would not prohibit the execution of such trades that he had pre-decided even before the 
unpublished price sensitive information came into being.  
 
(2) Such trading plan shall: –  
 
(i) not entail commencement of trading on behalf of the insider earlier than 42[one 
hundred and twenty calendar days] from the public disclosure of the plan; 
 
                                                           
42 Substituted for the words “six months” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024).

[Page 18]
NOTE: It is intended that to get the benefit of a trading plan, a cool-off period of 
43[one hundred and twenty calendar days] is necessary. 44[Companies declare their 
results quarterly and there exists a trading restriction, in terms of these Regulations, 
from quarter end to two days after declaration of quarterly result, which, it is seen, is 
generally a period of around one month for most companies. Thus, one hundred and 
twenty calendar days] period is considered reasonably long for unpublished price 
sensitive information that is in possession of the insider when formulating the trading 
plan, to become generally available.  It is also considered to be a reasonable period for a 
time lag in which new unpublished price sensitive information may come into being 
without adversely affecting the trading plan formulated earlier. In any case, it should be 
remembered that this is only a statutory cool-off period and would not grant immunity 
from action if the insider were to be in possession of the same unpublished price sensitive 
information both at the time of formulation of the plan and implementation of the same.  
  
(ii) 45[***]  
 
(iii) 46[***]  
 
                                                           
43 Substituted for the words “six months” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). 
44 Substituted for the words “Such a” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). 
45 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). Prior to omission, clause (ii) read as under: 
“not entail trading for the period between the twentieth trading day prior to the last day of any financial period for 
which results are required to be announced by the issuer of the securities and the second trading day after the 
disclosure of such financial results; 
NOTE: Since the trading plan is envisaged to be an exception to the general rule prohibiting trading by insiders 
when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, it is important that the trading plan does not entail 
trading for a reasonable period around the declaration of financial results as that would generate unpublished 
price sensitive information.” 
46 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). Prior to omission, clause (iii) read as under: 
“entail trading for a period of not less than twelve months; 
NOTE: It is intended that it would be undesirable to have frequent announcements of trading plans for short 
periods of time rendering meaningless the defence of a reasonable time gap between the decision to trade and 
the actual trade.  Hence it is felt that a reasonable time would be twelve months.”

[Page 19]
(iv) not entail overlap of any period for which another trading plan is already in 
existence;  
 
NOTE: It is intended that it would be undesirable to have multiple trading plans 
operating during the same time period.  Since it would be possible for an insider to time 
the publication of the unpublished price sensitive information to make it generally 
available instead of timing the trades, it is important not to have the ability to initiate 
more than one plan covering the same time period.  
 
(v)   47[set out following parameters for each trade to be executed: 
(i) either the value of trade to be effected or the number of securities to be 
traded; 
(ii) nature of the trade; 
(iii) either specific date or time period not exceeding five consecutive 
trading days; 
(iv) price limit, that is an upper price limit for a buy trade and a lower price 
limit for a sell trade, subject to the range as specified below: 
 
a. for a buy trade: the upper price limit shall be between the 
closing price on the day before submission of the trading plan 
and upto twenty per cent higher than such closing price; 
b. for a sell trade: the lower price limit shall be between the closing 
price on the day before submission of the trading plan and upto 
twenty per cent lower than such closing price. 
  Explanation:  
(i) While the parameters in sub-clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) shall be 
mandatorily mentioned for each trade, the parameter in sub-clause 
(iv) shall be optional.  
(ii) The price limit in sub-clause (iv) shall be rounded off to the nearest 
numeral. 
(iii) Insider may make adjustments, with the approval of the compliance 
officer, in the number of securities and price limit in the event of 
corporate actions related to bonus issue and stock split occurring 
                                                           
47 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). Prior to substitution clause (v), read as under: 
“set out either the value of trades to be effected or the number of securities to be traded along with the nature of 
the trade and the intervals at, or dates on which such trades shall be effected; and”

[Page 20]
after the approval of trading plan and the same shall be notified on 
the stock exchanges on which securities are listed.] 
 
NOTE: It is intended that while regulations should not be too prescriptive and 
rigid about what a trading plan should entail, they should stipulate certain basic 
parameters that a trading plan should conform to and within which, the plan may be 
formulated with full flexibility.  The nature of the trades entailed in the trading plan i.e. 
acquisition or disposal should be set out. The trading plan may set out the value of 
securities or the number of securities to be invested or divested.  Specific dates or specific 
time  48[period] may be set out in the plan. 49[However, there should be an outer limit on 
the duration of the time period, so that while it allows the insider to split their trades 
across different dates, duration should not be so long that it is prone to misuse.  
Further, to protect the insider from unexpected price movements, he may, at the time of 
formulation of trading plan, provide price limits within the range specified in these 
Regulations.] 
 
(vi)  not entail trading in securities for market abuse. 
 
NOTE: Trading on the basis of such a trading plan would not grant absolute immunity 
from bringing proceedings for market abuse. For instance, in the event of manipulative 
timing of the release of unpublished price sensitive information to ensure that trading 
under a trading plan becomes lucrative in circumvention of regulation 4 being detected, 
it would be open to initiate proceedings for alleged breach of SEBI (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 
2003. 
  
(3) The compliance officer shall review the trading plan to assess whether the plan would 
have any potential for violation of these regulations and shall be entitled to seek such express 
                                                           
48 Substituted for the word “intervals” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). 
49 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024).

[Page 21]
undertakings as may be necessary to enable such assessment and to approve and monitor the 
implementation of the plan. 
 
50[Provided that pre-clearance of trades shall not be required for a trade executed as per an 
approved trading plan.  
 
Provided further that trading window norms 51[***] shall not be applicable for trades carried out 
in accordance with an approved trading plan.]     
 
NOTE: It is intended that the compliance officer would have to review and approve the 
plan.  For doing so, he may need the insider to declare that he is not in possession of 
unpublished price sensitive information or that he would ensure that any unpublished price 
sensitive information in his possession becomes generally available before he commences 
executing his trades.  Once satisfied, he may approve the trading plan, which would then have to 
be implemented in accordance with these regulations.  
 
(4) The trading plan once approved shall be irrevocable and the insider shall mandatorily 
have to implement the plan, without being entitled to either  52[***] execute any trade in the 
securities outside the scope of the trading plan 53[or to deviate from it except due to permanent 
incapacity or bankruptcy or operation of law].  
 
Provided that the implementation of the trading plan shall not be commenced if any unpublished 
price sensitive information in possession of the insider at the time of formulation of the plan has 
not become generally available at the time of the commencement of implementation 54[***]. 
                                                           
50 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). 
51 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). Prior to amendment, it read as follows: “and restrictions on contra 
trade”. 
52 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). Prior to amendment, it read as “deviate from it or to”. 
53 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). 
54 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). Prior to amendment, it read as under:

[Page 22]
55[Provided further that if the insider has set a price limit for a trade under sub-clause (iv) of 
clause (v) of sub-regulation 2, the insider shall execute the trade only if the execution price of the 
security is within such limit. If price of the security is outside the price limit set by the insider, 
the trade shall not be executed. 
 
Explanation: In case of non-implementation (full/partial) of trading plan due to either reasons 
enumerated in sub-regulation 4 or failure of execution of trade due to inadequate liquidity in the 
scrip, the following procedure shall be adopted: 
 
(i) The insider shall intimate non-implementation (full/partial) of trading plan to the 
compliance officer within two trading days of end of tenure of the trading plan with reasons 
thereof and supporting documents, if any. 
(ii)Upon receipt of information from the insider, the compliance officer, shall place such 
information along with his recommendation to accept or reject the submissions of the 
insider, before the Audit Committee in the immediate next meeting. The Audit Committee 
shall decide whether such non-implementation (full/partial) was bona fide or not.  
(iii) The decision of the Audit Committee shall be notified by the compliance officer 
on the same day to the stock exchanges on which the securities are listed.   
(iv) In case the Audit Committee does not accept the submissions made by the insider, 
then the compliance officer shall take action as per the Code of Conduct.] 
 
NOTE: It is intended that since the trading plan is an exception to the general rule that an 
insider should not trade when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, changing 
the plan or trading outside the same would negate the intent behind the exception.  Other 
investors in the market, too, would factor the impact of the trading plan on their own trading 
decisions and in price discovery.  Therefore, it is not fair or desirable to permit the insider to 
                                                                                                                                                                                           
 “and in such event the compliance officer shall confirm that the commencement ought to be deferred until such 
unpublished price sensitive information becomes generally available information so as to avoid a violation of sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 4”. 
55 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024).

[Page 23]
deviate from the trading plan based on which others in the market have assessed their views on 
the securities 56[except in situations beyond the control of the insider].  
 
The 57[first] proviso is intended to address the prospect that despite the  58[one hundred and 
twenty calendar days] gap between the formulation of the trading plan and its commencement, 
the unpublished price sensitive information in possession of the insider is still not generally 
available.  In such a situation, commencement of the plan would conflict with the over-riding 
principle that trades should not be executed when in possession of such information. If the very 
same unpublished price sensitive information is still in the insider’s possession, the 59[execution 
of the trading plan should not be commenced].  
 
60[The second proviso is intended to address the scenario where the insider has set a price limit 
for a trade and due to adverse fluctuation in market prices, the price of the security is outside the 
price limit set by the insider, the trade shall not be executed. However, if the insider wishes to 
trade irrespective of the fluctuation in market price, he may not set any price limit at the time of 
formulation of the trading plan.] 
 
(5) 61[The compliance officer shall approve or reject the trading plan within two trading days 
of receipt of the trading plan and notify the approved plan to the stock exchanges on which the 
securities are listed, on the day of approval.] 
 
                                                           
56 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). 
57 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). 
58 Substituted for the words “six months” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). 
59 Substituted for the words “commencement of execution of the trading plan ought to be deferred” by Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. 
September 24, 2024). 
60 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). 
61 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 (w.e.f. September 24, 2024). Prior to substitution, sub-regulation 5 read as:  
“Upon approval of the trading plan, the compliance officer shall notify the plan to the stock exchanges on which 
the securities are listed.”

[Page 24]
NOTE: It is intended that given the material exception to the prohibitory rule in 
regulation 4, a trading plan is required to be publicly disseminated.  Investors in the market at 
large would also factor the potential pointers in the trading plan in their own assessment of the 
securities and price discovery for them on the premise of how the insiders perceive the prospects 
or approach the securities in their trading plan.  
62[CHAPTER – II A 
RESTRICTIONS ON COMMUNICATION IN RELATION TO AND TRADING BY 
INSIDERS IN THE UNITS OF MUTUAL FUNDS. 
Applicability 
5A. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply only  in relation to the units of a mutual 
fund.  
(2) All the provisions of Chapter IIIA and V shall also apply in relation to the units of a 
mutual fund. 
 
Definitions. 
5B.(1) For the purpose of this Chapter,  
 
(a) “associate” shall have the same meaning assigned to it under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Mutual funds) Regulations, 1996; 
(b) "connected person" shall mean: 
(i) any person who is or has during the two months prior to the concerned act 
been associated with the mutual fund, asset management company and trustees, 
directly or indirectly, in any capacity including by reason of frequent 
communication with its officers or by being in any contractual, fiduciary or 
employment relationship or by being a director, officer or employee of the 
asset management company and trustee or holds any position including a 
professional or business relationship with the mutual fund or asset management 
company or the trustees, whether temporary or permanent, that allows such a 
                                                           
62 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 (w.e.f. November 1, 2024).

[Page 25]
person, direct or indirect access to unpublished price sensitive information or is 
reasonably expected to allow such access; 
 
(ii) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the persons falling 
within the following categories shall be deemed to be connected persons unless 
the contrary is established, 
(a) an immediate relative of connected persons specified in clause (i); or  
(b) Sponsor, holding company or associate company or subsidiary 
company of the Sponsor or Asset management company and Trustees; or  
(c) Board of Directors and key management personnel of sponsor of the 
mutual fund;or 
 (d) Directors or employees of registrar and share transfer agents, 
custodians or valuation agencies of the mutual fund who have access or are 
reasonably expected to have access to unpublished price sensitive 
information relating to a mutual fund scheme or its units in the course of 
business operations; or 
(e) an official or an employee of fund accountant providing services to a 
mutual fund who have access or are reasonably expected to have access to 
unpublished price sensitive information relating to a mutual fund scheme 
or its units in the course of business operations; or 
(f) an official or an employee of a self-regulatory organization recognised 
or authorized by the Board; or  
(g) an official of a stock exchange for dissemination of information; or 
(h) Directors or employees of auditor, legal advisor or consultants of the 
mutual fund or asset management company who have access or are 
reasonably expected to have access to unpublished price sensitive 
information relating to a mutual fund scheme or its units in the course of 
business operation; or 
 (i) an intermediary as specified in section 12 of the Act or an employee or 
director thereof who have access or are reasonably expected to have access

[Page 26]
to unpublished price sensitive information relating to a mutual fund 
scheme or its units in the course of business operations; or  
(j) a banker of the mutual fund or asset management company; or  
(k) a concern, firm, trust, HUF, company or association of persons wherein 
a director of an asset management company and Trustees or his immediate 
relative or banker of the company, has more than ten per cent of the 
holding or interest;  
(c)  "generally  available  information"  means  information  that  is made available 
to the unitholders or made accessible  to  the public on a non-discriminatory 
basis; 
 
NOTE: Generally available information is intended to be defined to  crystallize 
and appreciate its meaning.   Information  published  on  the  website  of  a  
stock  exchange  would ordinarily be considered generally available. 
 
Explanation : The asset management companies/trustees shall immediately 
disseminate all material information on the platform of the stock exchange or 
in any other manner as may be specified by the Board, whenever the same 
needs to be communicated to the unitholders or a public notice needs to be 
made; 
 
(d)  “insider” means any person who is: 
i. a connected person; or 
ii.in possession of or having access to unpublished price sensitive information 
pertaining to a scheme; 
 
(e) "systematic transactions” in the units of mutual fund are those transactions 
which are automatically triggered for execution on a periodic basis as instructed 
by the investor including Systematic Investment Plans, Systematic Transfer 
Plans or Systematic Withdrawal Plans;

[Page 27]
(f) “unpublished price sensitive information" shall mean any information, pertaining 
to a scheme of a mutual fund which is not yet generally available and which 
upon becoming generally available, is likely to materially impact the net asset 
value or materially affect the interest of unit holders and shall include the 
instances where there is a likelihood of: 
i. a change in the accounting policy; 
ii. a material change in the valuation of any asset or class of assets; 
iii. restrictions on redemptions, winding up of scheme(s); 
iv. creation of segregated portfolio; 
v. the triggering of the swing pricing framework and the applicability of the 
swing factor; 
vi. material change in the liquidity position of the concerned mutual fund 
scheme(s); 
vii. default in the underlying securities which is material to the concerned mutual 
fund scheme(s). 
 
Note: All other definitions in Chapter-I shall mutatis mutandis be applicable to 
transactions in the units of mutual funds. 
 
Communication or procurement of unpublished price sensitive information and 
maintenance of a structured digital data base. 
5C. (1) No insider shall communicate, provide, or allow access to any unpublished price 
sensitive information to any person including other insiders except where such 
communication is in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge 
of legal obligations. 
NOTE: This provision is intended to cast an obligation on all insiders who are 
essentially persons in possession of unpublished price sensitive information to handle such 
information with care and to deal with the information with them when transacting their 
business strictly on a need-to-know basis. It is also intended to lead to organisations 
developing practices based on need-to-know principles for treatment of information in their 
possession.

[Page 28]
( 2 ) No person shall procure from or cause the communication by any insider of 
unpublished price sensitive information, except in furtherance of legitimate purposes, 
performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations. 
 
NOTE: This provision is intended to impose a prohibition on unlawfully procuring 
possession of unpublished price sensitive information. Inducement and procurement of 
unpublished price sensitive information not in furtherance of one’s legitimate duties and 
discharge of obligations would be illegal under this provision. 
 
(3) The board of directors of an asset management company with the approval of the 
Trustees shall make a policy for determination of “legitimate purposes”. 
 
Explanation – For the purpose of illustration, the term “legitimate purpose” shall include 
sharing of unpublished price sensitive information in the ordinary course of business by an 
insider with Trustees, Registrars and Share Transfer Agents, Custodians, Valuation 
Agencies, Fund Accountants, Association of Mutual funds of India, Credit Rating 
Agencies, legal advisors, auditors or other advisors or consultants, except where such 
sharing has been carried out to evade or circumvent the prohibitions of these regulations. 
 
(4) Any person in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information pursuant to a 
“legitimate purpose” shall be considered an “insider” for purposes of this chapter and due 
notice shall be given to such persons to maintain confidentiality of such unpublished price 
sensitive information in compliance with these regulations. 
 
(5) For the purpose of sub-regulation (4), the board of directors of an asset management 
company shall require the parties to execute agreements to contract confidentiality and 
non-disclosure obligations on the part of such parties and such parties shall keep 
information so received confidential, except for the purpose specified herein and shall not 
otherwise deal in the units of a mutual fund when in possession of unpublished price 
sensitive information.

[Page 29]
(6) The board of directors or head(s) of the organisation of every person required to handle 
unpublished price sensitive information shall ensure that a structured digital database is 
maintained containing the nature of unpublished price sensitive information and the names 
of such persons who have shared the information and also the names of such persons with 
whom information is shared under this regulation along with the Permanent Account 
Number or any other identifier authorized by law where Permanent Account Number is not 
available. Such database shall not be outsourced and shall be maintained internally with 
adequate internal controls and checks such as time stamping and audit trails to ensure non-
tampering of the database. 
 
(7) The board of directors or head(s) of the organisation of every person required to handle 
unpublished price sensitive information shall ensure that the structured digital database is 
preserved for a period of not less than eight years after completion of the relevant 
transactions and in the event of receipt of any information from the Board regarding any 
investigation or enforcement proceedings, the relevant information in the structured digital 
database shall be preserved till the completion of such proceedings 
 
Trading when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information. 
 
5D. (1) No insider shall trade in the units of a scheme of a mutual fund, when in possession 
of unpublished price sensitive information, which may have a material impact on the net 
asset value of a scheme or may have a material impact on the interest of the unit holders of 
the scheme: 
Explanation –The dealings of a person  in the units of a mutual fund when in possession of 
unpublished price sensitive information, shall be presumed to have been motivated by the 
knowledge and awareness of such information in his possession: 
Provided that the insider may prove his innocence by demonstrating the circumstances 
including the following: – 
 
(i) the transaction is an off-market inter-se transfer between insiders who were in

[Page 30]
possession of the same unpublished price sensitive information and both parties had 
made a conscious and informed trade decision: 
 
Provided    that  such  off-market  trades  shall  be  reported  by  the  insiders  to  the 
asset management company  within  two working  days.  Every  asset management 
company  shall  notify  the  particulars  of  such trades  to  the  stock  exchange  or 
in any other manner as may be specified by the Board within  two  trading  days 
from receipt of the disclosure or from becoming aware of such information; 
 
(ii) such transaction in question was carried out pursuant to a statutory or regulatory 
obligation including subscription or investment in mutual fund units pursuant to the 
mandatory requirement specified by the Board for “Alignment of interest of 
Designated Employees of asset management companies with the Unit holders of the 
mutual fund schemes”; 
 
(iii) such transaction in question is triggered by systematic transactions, where such  
systematic transactions are registered at least two months prior to such transaction; 
(iv) such transaction in question is triggered by irrevocable trading plans, where such 
plan has been approved by the Compliance Officer and disclosed on the Stock 
Exchange platform or  in any other manner as may be specified by the Board, at 
least sixty days before the commencement of trades:  
Provided that the trading period for each plan shall be at least six months with no 
overlapping of different trading plans: 
Provided further that for the trading as per the approved plan, no requirements/ 
norms related to pre-clearance of trading or closure period or contra trade shall be 
applicable. 
 
(2) In the case of connected persons, the onus of establishing that they were not in 
possession of unpublished price sensitive information, shall be on such connected persons 
and in other cases, the onus would be on the Board.

[Page 31]
Disclosures by certain persons 
5E. (1) An asset management company shall, on such date as may be specified by the 
Board and on a quarterly basis thereafter, disclose the details of holdings in the units of its 
mutual fund schemes, on an aggregated basis, held by the Designated Persons of asset 
management company, trustees and their immediate relatives on the platform of Stock 
Exchanges or in any other manner as may be specified by the Board. 
 
(2) Details of all the transactions in the  units of its own mutual funds, above such 
thresholds as may be specified by the Board, executed by the Designated Persons of asset 
management company, trustees and their immediate relatives shall be reported by the 
concerned person to the Compliance Officer of asset management company within two 
business days from the date of transaction: 
 
Provided that with respect to systematic transactions through any mutual fund scheme, 
Designated Persons may report the same only at the time of making the first installment of 
the transaction along with the period of such transaction and on modifications thereof, if 
any: 
 
  Provided further that no reporting is required if such transaction was pursuant to  
a. subscription/investment in the mutual fund units pursuant to mandatory requirement 
specified by Board for “Alignment of interest of Key Employees (‘Designated 
Employees’) of Asset Management Companies with the Unitholders of the mutual 
fund Schemes” or otherwise, where separate records are maintained by the Asset 
management company in this regard. Such transactions may be governed by 
Circulars/guidelines issued by the Board from time to time; 
b. Any trading in overnight schemes, Index funds and Exchange Traded Funds. 
 
(3) Transactions mentioned in sub-regulation (2), shall be disclosed by the asset 
management company on Stock Exchange or any other manner as may be specified by the 
Board within two business days of receipt of the same.

[Page 32]
(4) The  above  disclosures  shall  be  made  in  such  form  and  such  manner  as  may  be 
specified by the Board from time to time. 
 
Code of Conduct 
5F. (1) The board of directors of every asset management company shall ensure that the 
chief executive officer or managing director shall formulate a code of conduct with their 
approval to regulate, monitor and report dealings in mutual fund units by the Designated 
Persons and immediate relatives of the Designated Persons towards achieving compliance 
with these regulations and , adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule B1  to 
these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner. 
 
(2) The board of directors or head(s) of the organisation, of every other person who is 
required to handle unpublished price sensitive information relating to a mutual fund 
scheme or its units in the course of business operations shall formulate a code of conduct to 
regulate, monitor and report trading by their Designated Persons and immediate relative of 
Designated Persons towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the 
minimum standards set out in Schedule C  to these regulations, without diluting the 
provisions of these regulations in any manner. 
 
Explanation - Professional firms such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, 
consultants, banks, valuation agencies, fund accountants, assisting or advising Asset 
Management Companies, Trustees, Registrars and share transfer agents, Custodians and 
Credit Rating Agencies shall be collectively referred to as “fiduciaries” for the purpose of 
Schedule C of these regulations. 
 
(3) Every asset management company, intermediary and other persons formulating a code 
of conduct shall identify and designate a compliance officer to administer the code of 
conduct and other requirements under these regulations. 
 
Designated Person

[Page 33]
5G. (1)The board of directors of the asset management company and trustees shall in 
consultation with the compliance officer specify the Designated Persons to be covered by 
the code of conduct on the basis of their role and function in the organisation and the 
access that such role and function would provide to unpublished price sensitive 
information in addition to seniority and professional designation and shall include: 
  
i. Head of the asset management company (designated as Chief Executive 
Officer/Managing Director/President or by any other name),  
ii. Directors of the asset management company or the trustee company,  
iii. Chief Investment Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operation Officer, Chief 
Information Security Officer, Fund Managers, Dealers, Research Analysts, all 
employees in the Fund Operations Department, Compliance Officer and Heads 
of all divisions and/or departments or any other employee as designated by the 
asset management company and/or trustees.  
Explanation :Non-Executive Directors of the asset management company/trustee 
company or trustees who are in possession of / have access to any “unpublished  
price  sensitive  information" , shall also be deemed to be Designated Persons. 
  
(2) Every other Intermediary and other persons shall in consultation with the compliance 
officer specify the Designated Persons to be covered by the code of conduct on the basis of 
their role and function in the organisation and the access that such role and function would 
provide to unpublished price sensitive information in addition to seniority and professional 
designation 
 
Institutional Mechanism for Prevention of Insider trading. 
 
5H. (1) The Chief Executive Officer / Managing Director of an asset management 
company with the approval of the trustee or such other analogous person of an 
intermediary or fiduciary, shall put in place adequate and effective system of internal 
controls to ensure compliance with the requirements given in these regulations to prevent 
insider trading. These  internal controls shall include the following: 
(a). All employees who have access to unpublished price sensitive information are

[Page 34]
identified as Designated Persons; 
(b). All the unpublished price sensitive information shall be identified and its 
confidentiality shall be maintained as per the requirements of these regulations; 
(c). Adequate restrictions shall be placed on communication or procurement of 
unpublished price sensitive information as required by these regulations; 
(d). Lists of all employees and other persons with whom unpublished price sensitive 
information is shared shall be maintained and confidentiality agreements shall be 
signed or notice shall be served to all such employees and persons; 
(e). Periodic process review to evaluate effectiveness of such internal controls; 
(f). Compliance of all other relevant requirements specified under these regulations. 
 
(2) The board of directors of an asset management company and the board of 
directors or head(s) of the organisation of intermediaries and fiduciaries, shall also ensure 
that the Chief Executive Officer or the Managing Director or such other analogous person  
complies with these regulations. 
 
(3) The Audit Committee of an asset management company or such other analogous 
body of an intermediary or fiduciary shall review compliance with the provisions of these 
regulations at least once in a financial year and shall verify that the systems for internal 
control are adequate and are operating effectively. 
 
(4) Every asset management company shall with the approval of the trustees  
formulate written policies and procedures for inquiry in case of leak of unpublished price 
sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information and 
accordingly initiate appropriate inquiries on such leak of unpublished price sensitive 
information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information and promptly 
inform the Board promptly of such leaks, inquiries and result of such inquiries. 
 
(5)  An asset management company shall with the approval of the trustees have a 
whistle-blower policy that is brought to the notice of their employees to enable them to 
report instances of leak of such unpublished price sensitive information .

[Page 35]
(6) In case an inquiry has been initiated by an asset management company/ trustees   
in case of leak of unpublished price sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished 
price sensitive information, the relevant intermediaries and fiduciaries shall co-operate 
with the asset management company/ trustees in connection with such inquiry conducted 
by the asset management company/ trustees.] 
 
 
CHAPTER – III 
 
DISCLOSURES OF TRADING BY INSIDERS 
 
General provisions. 
6. (1) Every public disclosure under this Chapter shall be made in such form as may be 
specified. 
 
(2) The disclosures to be made by any person under this Chapter shall include those relating 
to trading by such person’s immediate relatives, and by any other person for whom such person 
takes trading decisions. 
 
NOTE: It is intended that disclosure of trades would need to be of not only those executed 
by the person concerned but also by the immediate relatives and of other persons for whom the 
person concerned takes trading decisions.  These regulations are primarily aimed at preventing 
abuse by trading when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information and therefore, 
what matters is whether the person who takes trading decisions is in possession of such 
information rather than whether the person who has title to the trades is in such possession. 
 
(3) The disclosures of trading in securities shall also include trading in derivatives of 
securities and the traded value of the derivatives shall be taken into account for purposes of this 
Chapter:

[Page 36]
Provided that trading in derivatives of securities is permitted by any law for the time 
being in force.  
 
(4) The disclosures made under this Chapter shall be maintained by the company, for a 
minimum period of five years, in such form as may be specified.  
 
 
 
Disclosures by certain persons. 
7. (1) Initial Disclosures.  
(a). 63[***] 
 
(b). Every person on appointment as a key managerial personnel or a director of the 
company or upon becoming a 64[promoter or member of the promoter group] shall 
disclose his holding of securities of the company as on the date of appointment or 
becoming a promoter, to the company within seven days of such appointment or 
becoming a promoter. 
 
 (2) Continual Disclosures.  
(a). Every promoter 65[, member of the promoter group], 66[designated person] and 
director of every company shall disclose to the company the number of such 
securities acquired or disposed of within two trading days of such transaction if the 
value of the securities traded, whether in one transaction or a series of transactions 
                                                           
63 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 (w.e.f. April 26, 2021). Prior to omission, clause (a) read as under: 
“Every promoter, member of the promoter group, key managerial personnel and director of every company whose 
securities are listed on any recognised stock exchange shall disclose his holding of securities of the company as on 
the date of these regulations taking effect, to the company within thirty days of these regulations taking effect;”  
64 Substituted for the word "promoter" by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019) 
65 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2019 (w.e.f. January 21, 2019) 
66 Substituted for the word “employee” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)

[Page 37]
over any calendar quarter, aggregates to a traded value in excess of ten lakh rupees or 
such other value as may be specified; 
 
(b). Every company shall notify the particulars of such trading to the stock exchange on 
which the securities are listed within two trading days of receipt of the disclosure or 
from becoming aware of such information. 
Explanation. — It is clarified for the avoidance of doubts that the disclosure of the 
incremental transactions after any disclosure under this sub-regulation, shall be made 
when the transactions effected after the prior disclosure cross the threshold specified 
in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2).  
 
67[(c)   The above disclosures shall be made in such form and such manner as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
Disclosures by other connected persons. 
(3) Any company whose securities are listed on a stock exchange may, at its discretion 
require any other connected person or class of connected persons to make disclosures of holdings 
and trading in securities of the company in such form and at such frequency as may be 
determined by the company in order to monitor compliance with these regulations. 
 
NOTE: This is an enabling provision for listed companies to seek information from those to 
whom it has to provide unpublished price sensitive information. This provision confers discretion 
on any company to seek such information. For example, a listed company may ask that a 
management consultant who would advise it on corporate strategy and would need to review 
unpublished price sensitive information, should make disclosures of his trades to the company.  
 
 
68[CHAPTER – IIIA 
                                                           
67 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020) 
68 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)

[Page 38]
Definitions. 
7A. (1) In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:- 
 
(a) ‘Investor Protection and Education Fund’ means the Investor Protection and Education 
Fund created by the Board under section 11 of the Act; 
 
(b) ‘Informant’ means an individual(s), who voluntarily submits to the Board a Voluntary 
Information Disclosure Form relating to an alleged violation of insider trading laws that 
has occurred, is occurring or has a reasonable belief that it is about to occur, in a manner 
provided under these regulations, regardless of whether such individual(s) satisfies the 
requirements, procedures and conditions to qualify for a reward; 
 
(c) ‘Informant Incentive Committee’ means the High Powered Advisory Committee 
constituted by the Board in the manner as may be specified under regulation 11 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018. 
 
(d) ‘insider trading laws’ means the following provisions of securities laws,- 
i. Section 15G of the Act; 
ii. regulation 3 of these regulations; 
iii. regulation 4 of these regulations; 
iv. regulation 5 of these regulations; 69[***] 
70[iv(a) regulations 5A to 5G of these regulations; and] 
v. regulation 9 or regulation 9A of these regulations, in so far as they pertain to 
trading or communication of unpublished price sensitive information. 
 
(e) ‘irrelevant, vexatious and frivolous information’ includes, reporting of information 
which in the opinion of the Board, - 
(i) Does not constitute a violation of insider trading laws; or 
                                                           
69 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 (w.e.f. November 1, 2024)  
70 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 (w.e.f. November 1, 2024)

[Page 39]
(ii) Is rendered solely for the purposes of malicious prosecution; or 
(iii) Is rendered intentionally in an effort to waste the time and resource of the Board. 
  
(f) ‘Legal Representative’ means a duly authorised individual who is admitted to the 
practice of law in India; 
 
(g) ‘Monetary Sanctions’ shall mean any non-monetary settlement terms or any direction of 
the Board, in the nature of disgorgement under securities laws aggregating to at least 
Rupees one crore arising from the same operative facts contained in the original 
information. 
 
(h) ‘Original Information’ means any relevant information submitted in accordance with 
these regulations pertaining to any violation of insider trading laws that is:- 
(i) derived from the independent knowledge and analysis of the Informant; 
(ii) not known to the Board from any other source, except where the Informant is the 
original source of the information; 
(iii) is sufficiently specific, credible and timely to - (1) commence an examination or 
inquiry or audit, (2) assist in an ongoing examination or investigation or inquiry or 
audit, (3) open or re-open an investigation or inquiry, or (4) inquire into a different 
conduct as part of an ongoing examination or investigation or inquiry or audit directed 
by the Board 
71[Explanation. – Information shall be considered timely, only if as on the date of 
receipt of the duly completed Voluntary Information Disclosure Form by the Board, a 
period of not more than three years has elapsed since the date on which the first 
alleged trade constituting violation of insider trading laws was executed];  
(iv) not exclusively derived from an allegation made in a judicial or administrative 
hearing, in a Governmental report, hearing, audit, or investigation, or from the news 
media, except where the Informant is the original source of the information; and  
(v) not irrelevant or frivolous or vexatious.  
                                                           
71 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. October 29, 2020).

[Page 40]
Explanation. – Information which does not in the opinion of the Board add to the 
information already possessed by the Board is not original information. 
   
(i) ‘own analysis’ means the examination and evaluation of the relevant information by the 
Informant that may be publicly available, but which reveals analysis that is not known 
to SEBI: 
Provided that such analysis is not derived from professional or confidential 
communication protected under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872); 
 
(j) ‘own knowledge’ means relevant information in the possession of the Informant not 
derived from publicly available sources: 
Provided that such knowledge is not derived from professional or confidential 
communications protected under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872); 
 
(k) ‘Reward’ means any gratuitous monetary amount for which an Informant is declared 
eligible as per the provisions of these regulations; 
 
(l) ‘securities laws’ means the Act, the Securities Contract (Regulations) Act, 1956 (42 of 
1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996), the relevant provisions of any other law 
to the extent it is administered by the Board and the relevant rules and regulations made 
thereunder; 
 
(m) ‘voluntarily providing information’ means providing the Board with information before 
receiving any request, inquiry, or demand from the Board, any other Central or State 
authorities or other statutory authority about a matter, to which the information is 
relevant; 
 
(2) Words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations but defined in securities 
laws, shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in those laws or any statutory 
modification or re-enactment thereto.

[Page 41]
Submission of Original Information to the Board 
7B. (1) An Informant shall submit Original Information by furnishing the Voluntary Information 
Disclosure Form to the Office of Informant Protection of the Board in the format and manner set 
out in Schedule D. The Voluntary Information Disclosure Form may be submitted through 
informant’s legal representative: 
Provided that where the Informant does not submit the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form 
through a legal representative, the Board may require such Informant to appear in person to 
ascertain his/her identity and the veracity of the information so provided. 
Explanation. – Where any information pertaining to any violation of the Securities Laws is 
received in a manner not in accordance with the manner provided under these regulations, the 
Board may require such information to be filed with it in accordance with these regulations or 
reject the same. 
 
(2) The legal representative shall,- 
i. Verify the identity and contact details of the Informant; 
ii. Unless otherwise required by the Board, maintain confidentiality of the identity and 
existence of the Informant, including the original Voluntary Information Disclosure 
Form; 
iii. Undertake and certify that he/she,- 
(a) Has reviewed the completed and signed Voluntary Information Disclosure Form for 
completeness and accuracy and that the information contained therein is true, correct 
and complete to the best of his/her knowledge; 
(b) Has obtained a irrevocable consent from the Informant to provide to the Board with 
original Voluntary Information Disclosure Form whenever required by the Board; 
and 
(c) Agrees to be legally obligated to provide the original Voluntary Information 
Disclosure Form within seven (7) calendar days of receiving such requests from the 
Board. 
iv. Submits to the Board, the copy of the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form in the 
manner provided in Schedule D of these regulations along with a signed certificate as 
required under clause (iii) of this sub-regulation (2).

[Page 42]
(3) An Informant shall while submitting the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form shall 
expunge such information from the content of the information which could reasonably be 
expected to reveal his or her identity and in case where such information cannot be expunged, 
the Informant may identify such part of information or any document that the Informant believes 
could reasonably be expected to reveal his or her identity. 
 
Receipt of Original Information by the Board 
7C. (1) The Board may designate a division to function as the independent Office of Informant 
Protection. 
 
(2) The Office of Informant Protection shall perform such functions as may be specified by the 
Board, including,- 
i. Receiving and registering the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form; 
ii. Making all necessary communications with the Informant; 
iii. Maintaining a hotline for the benefit of potential Informant; 
iv. Maintaining confidentiality of the legal representative of the Informant and act as an 
interface between the Informant and the officers of the Board; 
v. Interacting with the Informant Incentive Committee; 
vi. Issuing press releases and rewards relating to Informant; and 
vii. Submitting an annual report to the Board relating to the functioning of the Office of 
Informant Protection.  
 
(3) On receipt of the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form, the Office of Informant Protection 
shall communicate the substance of the information along with the evidence submitted by the 
informant to the relevant department or division of the Board for examination and initiation of 
necessary action, if any. 
 
(4) The Board shall not be required to send any intimation or acknowledgement to the Informant 
or any other person, of the examination or action initiated by the Board, if any, pursuant to

[Page 43]
receipt of the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form or information under these regulations, 
including rejection thereof. 
 
Informant Reward. 
7D. (1) 72[The] Board may at its sole discretion, declare an Informant eligible for Reward and 
intimate the Informant or his or her legal representative to file an application in the format 
provided in Schedule-E for claiming such Reward: 
Provided that the amount of Reward shall be ten percent of the monetary sanctions 73[***] and 
shall not exceed Rupees 74[ten crores] or such higher amount as the Board may specify from time 
to time: 
75[***] 
 
76[(1A) If the total reward payable is less than or equal to Rupees One Crore, the Board may 
grant the said reward upon the issuance of the final order by the Board: 
Provided that in case the total reward payable is more than Rupees One Crore, the Board may 
grant an interim reward not exceeding Rupees One Crore upon the issuance of the final order by 
the Board and the remaining reward amount shall be paid only upon collection or recovery of the 
monetary sanctions amounting to at least twice the balance reward amount payable.] 
 
(2) In case of more than one Informant jointly providing the Original Information, the Reward, 
as specified in the intimation under sub-regulation (1), shall be divided equally amongst the total 
number of Informants. 
 
                                                           
72 Substituted for the words "Upon collection or substantial recovery of the monetary sanctions amounting to at least 
twice the Reward, the" by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 (w.e.f. August 05, 2021)  
73 Omitted the words “collected or recovered” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 (w.e.f. August 05, 2021) 
74 Substituted for the words "one crore" by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 (w.e.f. August 05, 2021)  
75 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 (w.e.f. August 05, 2021). Prior to omission, second proviso read as under: 
“Provided further that the Board may if deemed fit, out of the total Reward payable, grant an interim reward not 
exceeding Rupees Ten lacs or such higher amount as the Board may specify from time to time, on the issue of final 
order by the Board against the person directed to disgorge.” 
76 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 (w.e.f. August 05, 2021)

[Page 44]
(3) 77[Any reward, whether interim or otherwise] under these regulations shall be paid from the 
Investor Protection and Education Fund. 
 
78[NOTE: An illustrative table of the reward payable under this provision is stated below: 
Illustrative table of the reward payable 
(Amount in crore rupees) 
A.  Monetary Sanctions 
 
≥ 100.00 20.00 
 
10.00 5.00 1.00 
B.  Total Reward 
Payable 
= 10% of Monetary 
Sanctions subject to 
maximum of 
Rupees 10.0 crores. 
 
10.00 2.00 1.00 0.50 0.10 
C.  Maximum Amount 
Payable as Interim 
Reward (on the 
issuance of final 
order by the Board 
against the person 
directed to 
disgorge) 
= Total Reward 
Payable (B) or 
Rupees 1.00 Crore, 
whichever is less. 
 
1.00 1.00 
D.  Balance Amount of 
Reward Payable (B 
- C).  
 
9.00 1.00 NIL because the entire reward 
was paid after passing of final 
order 
E.  Minimum Amount to 
be collected / 
recovered by SEBI, 
for balance amount 
of reward (D) to 
become payable  
18.00 2.00 
 
Not 
Applicable 
as the 
amount of 
interim 
reward 
Not 
Applicable 
as the 
amount of 
interim 
reward 
Not 
Applicable 
as the 
amount of 
interim 
reward 
                                                           
77 Substituted for the words "The reward" by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 (w.e.f. August 05, 2021)  
78 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 (w.e.f. August 05, 2021)

[Page 45]
= Twice the 
Balance Amount of 
Reward Payable (2 
x D). 
 
itself is 
equal to 
total 
eligible 
reward 
itself is 
equal to 
total 
eligible 
reward 
itself is 
equal to 
total 
eligible 
reward 
] 
Determination of amount of Reward. 
7E. (1) The amount of the Reward, if payable, shall be determined by the Board. 
 
(2) While determining the amount of Reward under sub-regulation (1), the Board may specify 
the factors that may be taken into consideration by the Informant Incentive Committee. 
 
(3) An Informant may be eligible for a Reward whether or not he reported the matter to his 
organization as per its internal legal and compliance procedures and irrespective of such 
organization’s compliance officer subsequently providing the same Information to the Board. 
 
Application for Reward. 
7F. (1) Informants who are considered tentatively eligible for a Reward, shall submit the 
Informant Reward Claim Form set out in Schedule E to the Board within the period specified in 
the intimation sent by the Board. 
 
(2) Prior to the payment of a Reward, an Informant shall directly or through his or her legal 
representative, disclose his or her identity and provide such other information as the Board may 
require. 
 
Rejection of claim for Reward. 
7G. No Reward shall be made to an Informant:- 
(1) who does not submit original information; 
(2) who has acquired the Original Information, through or as a member, officer, or an employee 
of:- 
(i)  any regulatory agency constituted by or under any law in India or outside India, including 
the Board; 
(ii)  any self-regulatory organization;

[Page 46]
(iii)      the surveillance or investigation wings of any recognised stock exchange or clearing 
corporation; or 
(iv)  any law enforcement organization including the police or any central or state revenue 
authorities. 
(3) against whom the Board may initiate or has initiated criminal proceedings under securities laws; 
(4) who wilfully refused to cooperate with the Board during its course of investigation, inquiry, 
audit, examination or other proceedings under securities laws;  
(5) who: 
(i) knowingly makes any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or  
(ii) uses any false writing or document knowing that the writing or document contains any 
false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry; or  
(iii) fails to furnish the complete information available with him or accessible by him in 
relation to the alleged violation. 
(6) who is obligated, under any law or otherwise, to report such Original Information to the Board, 
including a compliance officer under securities laws. 
Provided that the Board may if deemed fit, at its sole discretion, exempt a person from any of 
these disqualifications. 
 
Informant confidentiality. 
7H. (1) Any information including Original Information may, at the discretion of the Board, be 
made available: 
(a) when it is required to be disclosed in connection with any legal proceedings in 
furtherance of the Board’s legal position;  
(b) as permitted by these regulations; or 
(c) as may be otherwise required or permitted by law. 
 
(2) Original Information may, at the discretion of the Board, be made available to - 
(i) any regulatory agency constituted by or under any law in India or outside India; 
(ii) any self-regulatory organization; 
(iii) the surveillance or investigation wings of any recognised stock exchange or clearing 
corporation; or

[Page 47]
(iv) any law enforcement organization including the police or any central or state revenue 
authorities; or 
(v) a public prosecutor in connection with any criminal proceedings. 
 
Provided that sharing of information shall be in accordance with such assurances of 
confidentiality as the Board determines appropriate. 
Explanation - Nothing in these regulations is intended to limit, or shall be construed to limit, the 
ability of the public prosecutor to share such evidence with potential witnesses or accused in 
connection with any criminal proceedings. 
 
(3) The Original Information and identity provided by an Informant shall be held in confidence 
and exempted from disclosure under clauses (g) and (h) of sub-section (1) of section 8 of the 
Right to Information Act, 2005 (No. 22 of 2005). 
 
(4) Subject to the law of evidence for the time being in force, nothing in these regulations shall 
prejudice the right of the Board to use or to rely on information received otherwise. 
 
(5) No person shall have the right to compel disclosure of the identity, existence of an Informant 
or the information provided by an Informant, except to the extent relied upon in any proceeding 
initiated against such person by the Board. 
Explanation 1 . – The confidentiality in respect of the identity and existence of the Informant 
shall be maintained throughout the process of investigation, inquiry and examination as well as 
during any proceedings before the Board and save where the evidence of the Informant is 
required during such proceedings, advance notice of such evidence may be provided to the 
noticee at least seven (7) working days prior to the date of the scheduled hearing for evidence. 
Explanation 2 . – In proceedings before any authority other than the Board, the Board may 
request maintenance of confidentiality of the identity and existence of an Informant in such 
proceeding. 
 
 
Protection against retaliation and victimisation

[Page 48]
7I. (1) Every person required to have a Code of Conduct under these regulations shall ensure that 
such a Code of Conduct provides for suitable protection against any discharge, termination, 
demotion, suspension, threats, harassment, directly or indirectly or discrimination against any 
employee who files a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form, irrespective of whether the 
information is considered or rejected by the Board or he or she is eligible for a Reward under 
these regulations, by reason of: 
(i) filing a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form under these regulations; 
(ii)  testifying in, participating in, or otherwise assisting or aiding the Board in any 
investigation, inquiry, audit, examination or proceeding instituted or about to be instituted 
for an alleged violation of insider trading laws or in any manner aiding the enforcement 
action taken by the Board; or  
(iii) breaching any confidentiality agreement or provisions of any terms and conditions of 
employment or engagement solely to prevent any employee from cooperating with the 
Board in any manner. 
Explanation 1. - For the purpose of this Chapter, “employee” means any individual who during 
employment may become privy to information relating to violation of insider trading laws and 
files a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form under these regulations and is a director, partner, 
regular or contractual employee, but does not include an advocate.  
Explanation 2. - Nothing in this regulation shall require the employee to establish that,- 
(i) the Board has taken up any enforcement action in furtherance of information provided by 
such person; or 
(ii) the information provided fulfils the criteria of being considered as an Original 
Information under these regulations. 
 
(2) Nothing in these regulations shall prohibit any Informant who believes that he or she has 
been subject to retaliation or victimisation by his or her employer, from approaching the 
competent court or tribunal for appropriate relief. 
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (2), any employer who violates this 
Chapter may be liable for penalty, debarment, suspension, and/or criminal prosecution by the 
Board, as the case may be:

[Page 49]
Provided that nothing in these regulations will require the Board to direct re-instatement or 
compensation by an employer.  
 
(4) Nothing in these regulations shall diminish the rights and privileges of or remedies available 
to any Informant under any other law in force. 
 
Void Agreements 
7J. (1) Any term in an agreement (oral or written) or Code of Conduct, is void in so far as it 
purports to preclude any person, other than an advocate, from submitting to the Board 
information relating to the violation of the securities laws that has occurred, is occurring or has a 
reasonable belief that it would occur. 
 
(2) No person shall by way of any threat or act impede an individual from communicating with 
the Board, including enforcing or threatening to enforce, a confidentiality agreement (other than 
agreements related to legal representations of a client and communications there under) with 
respect to such communications. 
Explanation. - No employer shall require an employee to notify him of any Voluntary 
Information Disclosure Form filed with the Board or to seek its prior permission or consent or 
guidance of any person engaged by the employer before or after such filing.  
 
No Amnesty 
7K. (1) Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to provide any amnesty or immunity to an 
Informant for violation of securities law. 
 
(2) Where an action against an Informant is deemed appropriate the Board may take into account 
the co-operation rendered in the final determination of any penalty, sanction, direction or 
settlement thereof, as the case may be. 
 
(3) Where an action against an Informant is deemed appropriate, the Board while determining 
the value of monetary sanctions shall not take into account the monetary sanctions that the 
Informant is ordered to pay or that which any other person is ordered to pay if the liability of

[Page 50]
such other person is based substantially on the conduct that the Informant directed, planned, or 
initiated. 
 
(4) An Informant who may be liable for enforcement action by the Board based on his or her 
conduct in connection with securities laws violations reported in the Voluntary Information 
Disclosure Form filed with the Board, may simultaneously or at any time thereafter file an 
application seeking settlement with confidentiality under Chapter IX of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018. 
 
(5) Notwithstanding any action taken by the Board against an Informant, the Informant may, 
after payment of any monetary amounts be eligible for a Reward.  
 
Functions of Informant Incentive Committee  
7L. (1) The Informant Incentive Committee shall be assisted by the Office of Informant 
Protection. 
 
(2) The Informant Incentive Committee shall give its recommendations to the Board on the 
following matters,- 
i. Eligibility of Informant for reward; 
ii. Determination under regulations 7E and 7G; and 
iii. Such other issues relating to Informant as the Board may require from time to time. 
  
(3) The Informant Incentive Committee shall conduct its meetings in the manner specified by the 
Board in this regard. 
 
Public dissemination and incentivisation of Informant. 
7M. (1) The Board shall upload on its website the following,- 
i. Annual report of the Office of Informant Protection; 
ii. Press release informing the public that an intimation to the Informant has been issued 
under Regulation 7D;

[Page 51]
iii. Press release informing the public that a Reward has been paid under these 
regulations and the amount of Monetary Sanctions recovered pursuant to the 
information provided by the Informant; 
iv. The Order issuing the Reward; 
Explanation. – Nothing in this regulation shall require the Board to disclose information 
that could identify the Informant or the information provided by the Informant.] 
 
CHAPTER – IV 
 
CODES OF FAIR DISCLOSURE AND CONDUCT 
 
Code of Fair Disclosure.  
8. (1) The board of directors of every company, whose securities are listed on a stock 
exchange, shall formulate and publish on its official website, a code of practices and procedures 
for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information that it would follow in order to 
adhere to each of the principles set out in Schedule A to these regulations, without diluting the 
provisions of these regulations in any manner. 
 
NOTE: This provision intends to require every company whose securities are listed on 
stock exchanges to formulate a stated framework and policy for fair disclosure of events and 
occurrences that could impact price discovery in the market for its securities. Principles such as, 
equality of access to information, publication of policies such as those on dividend, inorganic 
growth pursuits, calls and meetings with analysts, publication of transcripts of such calls and 
meetings, and the like are set out in the schedule. 
 
(2) Every such code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price 
sensitive information and every amendment thereto shall be promptly intimated to the stock 
exchanges where the securities are listed.  
 
NOTE: This provision is aimed at requiring transparent disclosure of the policy 
formulated in sub-regulation (1).

[Page 52]
Code of Conduct. 
9. (1) The board of directors of every listed company and 79[the board of directors or 
head(s) of the organisation of every intermediary shall ensure that the chief executive officer or 
managing director] shall formulate a code of conduct 80[with their approval] to regulate, monitor 
and report trading by its 81[designated persons and immediate relatives of designated persons] 
towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in 
Schedule B 82[(in case of a listed company) and Schedule C (in case of an intermediary)] to these 
regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner. 
 
83[Explanation – For the avoidance of doubt it is clarified that intermediaries, which are listed, 
would be required to formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by their 
designated persons, by adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule B with respect to 
trading in their own securities and in Schedule C with respect to trading in other securities.] 
 
NOTE: It is intended that every company whose securities are listed on stock exchanges 
and every 84[intermediary] registered with SEBI is mandatorily required to formulate a code of 
conduct governing trading by 85[designated persons and their immediate relatives].  The 
standards set out in the 86[schedules] are required to be addressed by such code of conduct. 
 
                                                           
79 Substituted for the words “market intermediary” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
80 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
81 Substituted for the words “employees and other connected persons” by Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
82 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
83 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
84 Substituted for the words “market intermediary” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
85 Substituted for the words “ its employees ” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
86 Substituted for the word “ schedule” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)

[Page 53]
(2) 87[The board of directors or head(s) of the organisation, of every other person who is 
required to handle unpublished price sensitive information in the course of business operations 
shall formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by their designated 
persons and immediate relative of designated persons towards achieving compliance with these 
regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule C to these regulations, without 
diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner. 
 
Explanation - Professional firms such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, 
insolvency professional entities, consultants, banks etc., assisting or advising listed companies 
shall be collectively referred to as fiduciaries for the purpose of these regulations.]  
 
NOTE: 88[This provision is intended to mandate persons other than listed companies and 
intermediaries that are required to handle unpublished price sensitive information to formulate a 
code of conduct governing trading in securities by their designated persons. These entities 
include professional firms such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, insolvency 
professional entities, consultants, banks etc., assisting or advising listed companies. Even entities 
that normally operate outside the capital market may handle unpublished price sensitive 
information. This provision would mandate all of them to formulate a code of conduct.] 
 
                                                           
87 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). Prior to substitution Sub-regulation (2) read as under: 
“Every other person who is required to handle unpublished price sensitive information in the course of business 
operations shall formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by employees and other 
connected persons towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in 
Schedule B to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner.” 
88 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019). Prior to substitution the Note read as under: 
“This provision is intended to mandate persons other than listed companies and market intermediaries that are 
required to handle unpublished price sensitive information to formulate a code of conduct governing trading in 
securities by their employees. These entities include professional firms such as auditors, accountancy firms, law 
firms, analysts, consultants etc., assisting or advising listed companies, market intermediaries and other capital 
market participants. Even entities that normally operate outside the capital market may handle unpublished price 
sensitive information. This provision would mandate all of them to formulate a code of conduct.”

[Page 54]
(3) Every listed company, 89[intermediary] and other persons formulating a code of conduct 
shall identify and designate a compliance officer to administer the code of conduct and other 
requirements under these regulations. 
 
NOTE: This provision is intended to designate a senior officer as the compliance officer with the 
responsibility to administer the code of conduct and monitor compliance with these regulations. 
 
90[(4) For the purpose of sub regulation (1) and (2), the board of directors or such other 
analogous authority shall in consultation with the compliance officer specify the designated 
persons to be covered by the code of conduct on the basis of their role and function in the 
organisation and the access that such role and function would provide to unpublished price 
sensitive information in addition to seniority and professional designation and shall include:- 
 
(i) Employees of such listed company, intermediary or fiduciary designated on the basis 
of their functional role or access to unpublished price sensitive information in the 
organization by their board of directors or analogous body;  
 
(ii) Employees of material subsidiaries of such listed companies designated on the basis 
of their functional role or access to unpublished price sensitive information in the 
organization by their board of directors; 
 
(iii) All promoters of listed companies and promoters who are individuals or investment 
companies for intermediaries or fiduciaries; 
 
(iv) Chief Executive Officer and employees upto two levels below Chief Executive 
Officer of such listed company, intermediary, fiduciary and its material subsidiaries 
irrespective of their functional role in the company or ability to have access to 
unpublished price sensitive information; 
                                                           
89 Substituted for the words “market intermediary” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
90 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)

[Page 55]
(v) Any support staff of listed company, intermediary or fiduciary such as IT staff or 
secretarial staff who have access to unpublished price sensitive information.] 
 
91[Institutional Mechanism for Prevention of Insider trading. 
9A.  (1) The Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director or such other analogous person of a 
listed company, intermediary or fiduciary shall put in place adequate and effective system of 
internal controls to ensure compliance with the requirements given in these regulations to 
prevent insider trading.  
 
(2) The internal controls shall include the following:  
(a). all employees who have access to unpublished price sensitive information are 
identified as designated 92[person]; 
 
(b). all the unpublished price sensitive information shall be identified and its 
confidentiality shall be maintained as per the requirements of these regulations; 
 
(c). adequate restrictions shall be placed on communication or procurement of 
unpublished price sensitive information as required by these regulations;  
 
(d). lists of all employees and other persons with whom unpublished price sensitive 
information is shared shall be maintained and confidentiality agreements shall be 
signed or notice shall be served to all such employees and persons;  
 
(e). all other relevant requirements specified under these regulations shall be complied 
with;  
 
(f). periodic process review to evaluate effectiveness of such internal controls.  
                                                           
91 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
92 Substituted for the word “employee” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)

[Page 56]
(3) The board of directors of every listed company and the board of directors or head(s) of the 
organisation of intermediaries and fiduciaries shall ensure that the Chief Executive Officer or the 
Managing Director or such other analogous person ensures compliance with regulation 9 and 
sub-regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation.  
 
(4) The Audit Committee of a listed company or other analogous body for intermediary or 
fiduciary shall review compliance with the provisions of these regulations at least once in a 
financial year and shall verify that the systems for internal control are adequate and are operating 
effectively.  
 
(5) Every listed company shall formulate written policies and procedures for inquiry in case of 
leak of unpublished price sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive 
information, which shall be approved by board of directors of the company and accordingly 
initiate appropriate inquiries on becoming aware of leak of unpublished price sensitive 
information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information and inform the Board 
promptly of such leaks, inquiries and results of such inquiries.  
 
(6) The listed company shall have a whistle-blower policy and make employees aware of such 
policy to enable employees to report instances of leak of unpublished price sensitive information.  
 
(7) If an inquiry has been initiated by a listed company in case of leak of unpublished price 
sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information, the relevant 
intermediaries and fiduciaries shall co-operate with the listed company in connection with such 
inquiry conducted by listed company.] 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER – V

[Page 57]
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
Sanction for violations. 
10. Any contravention of these regulations shall be dealt with by the Board in accordance 
with the Act. 
 
Power to remove difficulties. 
93[11. (1) In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the 
provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through 
guidance notes or circulars:                                               
 Provided that where any direction is issued by the Board in a specific case relating to 
interpretation or application of any provision of these regulations, it shall be done only after 
affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned persons and after recording 
reasons for the direction.] 
 
94[(2) For the purpose of Chapter IIIA, the Board may,-  
i. by circular, specify procedures and processes for carrying out the purposes of these 
regulations;  
ii. remove any difficulty in the interpretation or application or implementation of the   
provisions of these regulations, by issuing clarifications and specifying procedures 
through circulars or guidelines.] 
 
Repeal and Savings. 
12. (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 1992 are hereby repealed. 
 
(2)  Notwithstanding such repeal,— 
 
                                                           
93 Renumbered as 11 (1) by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019) 
94 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)

[Page 58]
(a)  the previous operation of the repealed regulations or anything duly done or suffered 
thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the 
repealed regulations, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence 
committed against the repealed regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in 
respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as 
aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations had never been repealed; and  
 
(b) anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including any 
adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the 
repealed regulations prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the 
corresponding provisions of these regulations; 
 
(3)  After the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 1992, any reference thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or 
circulars issued thereunder by the Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding 
provisions of these regulations.

[Page 59]
SCHEDULE A 
 
[See sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8] 
 
Principles of Fair Disclosure for purposes of Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair 
Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information 
 
1. Prompt public disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information that would impact 
price discovery no sooner than credible and concrete information comes into being in order to 
make such information generally available. 
 
2. Uniform and universal dissemination of unpublished price sensitive unpublished price 
sensitive information to avoid selective disclosure. 
 
3. Designation of a senior officer as a chief investor relations officer to deal with 
dissemination of information and disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information. 
 
4. Prompt dissemination of unpublished price sensitive information that gets disclosed 
selectively, inadvertently or otherwise to make such information generally available.  
 
5. Appropriate and fair response to queries on news reports and requests for verification of 
market rumours by regulatory authorities. 
 
6. Ensuring that information shared with analysts and research personnel is not unpublished 
price sensitive information. 
 
7. Developing best practices to make transcripts or records of proceedings of meetings with 
analysts and other investor relations conferences on the official website to ensure official 
confirmation and documentation of disclosures made. 
 
8. Handling of all unpublished price sensitive information on a need-to-know basis.

[Page 60]
SCHEDULE B 
 
[See sub-regulation (1) 95[***] of regulation 9] 
 
Minimum Standards for Code of Conduct 96[for Listed Companies] to Regulate, 
Monitor and Report Trading by 97[Designated Persons] 
 
1. The compliance officer shall report to the board of directors and in particular, shall 
provide reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, if any, or to the Chairman of the board 
of directors at such frequency as may be stipulated by the board of directors, 98[but not less than 
once in a year]. 
 
2. All information shall be handled within the organisation on a need-to-know basis and no 
unpublished price sensitive information shall be communicated to any person except in 
furtherance of 99[***] legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of 100[***] legal 
obligations. The code of conduct shall contain norms for appropriate Chinese Walls procedures, 
and processes for permitting any designated person to “cross the wall”. 
 
3. 101[Designated Persons and immediate relatives of designated persons] in the organisation 
shall be governed by an internal code of conduct governing dealing in securities.  102[***] 
                                                           
95 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “and sub-regulation (2)”. 
96 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
97 Substituted for the word “Insiders” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
98 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
99 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “the insider’s”. 
100 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “his”. 
101 Substituted for the words “Employees and connected persons designated on the basis of their functional role 
(“designated persons”)” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
102 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as below: 
“The board of directors shall in consultation with the compliance officer specify the designated persons to be 
covered by such code on the basis of their role and function in the organisation. Due regard shall be had to the

[Page 61]
103[4. (1) Designated persons may execute trades subject to compliance with these regulations.  
Towards this end, a notional trading window shall be used as an instrument of monitoring trading 
by the designated persons. The trading window shall be closed when the compliance officer 
determines that a designated person or class of designated persons can reasonably be expected to 
have possession of unpublished price sensitive information. Such closure shall be imposed in 
relation to such securities to which such unpublished price sensitive information relates.  
Designated persons and their immediate relatives shall not trade in securities when the trading 
window is closed.  
104[Provided that, for unpublished price sensitive information not emanating from within the 
Listed Company, trading window may not be closed.] 
(2) 105[Trading restriction period 106[shall] be made applicable from the end of every quarter till 
48 hours after the declaration of financial results. The gap between clearance of accounts by 
audit committee and board meeting should be as narrow as possible and preferably on the same 
day to avoid leakage of material information.]  
107[(3) The trading window restrictions mentioned in sub-clause (1) shall not apply in respect of 
– 
(a) transactions specified in clauses (i) to (iv) and (vi) of the proviso to sub-regulation (1) of  
regulation 4 and in respect of a pledge of shares for a bonafide purpose such as raising of funds, 
subject to pre-clearance by the compliance officer and compliance with the respective 
regulations made by the Board;  
(b) transactions which are undertaken in accordance with respective regulations made by the 
Board such as acquisition by conversion of warrants or debentures, subscribing to rights issue, 
                                                                                                                                                                                           
access that such role and function would provide to unpublished price sensitive information in addition to seniority 
and professional designation.” 
103 First paragraph numbered as sub-clause (1) and second and third paragraph combined and numbered as sub-
clause (2) by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
104 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 (w.e.f. June 10, 2025). 
105 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
106 Substituted for the word “can” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
107 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)

[Page 62]
further public issue, preferential allotment or tendering of shares in a buy-back offer, open offer, 
delisting offer] 108[or transactions which are undertaken through such other mechanism as may 
be specified by the Board from time to time]. 
 
5. The timing for re-opening of the trading window shall be determined by the compliance 
officer taking into account various factors including the unpublished price sensitive information 
in question becoming generally available and being capable of assimilation by the market, which 
in any event shall not be earlier than forty-eight hours after the information becomes generally 
available. 109[***] 
 
6.  When the trading window is open, trading by designated persons shall be subject to pre-
clearance by the compliance officer, if the value of the proposed trades is above such thresholds 
as the board of directors may stipulate.  110[***]   
 
7. 111[***] 
 
8. Prior to approving any trades, the compliance officer shall be entitled to seek declarations 
to the effect that the applicant for pre-clearance is not in possession of any unpublished price 
sensitive information. He shall also have regard to whether any such declaration is reasonably 
capable of being rendered inaccurate. 
 
                                                           
108 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020). 
109 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as below: 
“The trading window shall also be applicable to any person having contractual or fiduciary relation with the 
company, such as auditors, accountancy firms, law firms, analysts, consultants etc., assisting or advising the 
company.” 
110 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as below: 
“No designated person shall apply for pre-clearance of any proposed trade if such designated person is in possession 
of unpublished price sensitive information even if the trading window is not closed.” 
111 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as below: 
“The compliance officer shall confidentially maintain a list of such securities as a “restricted list” which shall be 
used as the basis for approving or rejecting applications for preclearance of trades.”

[Page 63]
9. The code of conduct shall specify any reasonable timeframe, which in any event shall not 
be more than seven trading days, within which trades that have been pre-cleared have to be 
executed by the designated person, failing which fresh pre-clearance would be needed for the 
trades to be executed. 
 
10. The code of conduct shall specify the period, which in any event shall not be less than six 
months, within which a designated person who is permitted to trade shall not execute a contra 
trade.  The compliance officer may be empowered to grant relaxation from strict application of 
such restriction for reasons to be recorded in writing provided that such relaxation does not 
violate these regulations. Should a contra trade be executed, inadvertently or otherwise, in 
violation of such a restriction, the profits from such trade shall be liable to be disgorged for 
remittance to the Board for credit to the Investor Protection and Education Fund administered by 
the Board under the Act. 
 
112[Provided that this shall not be applicable for trades pursuant to exercise of stock options.] 
 
11. The code of conduct shall stipulate such formats as the board of directors deems 
necessary for making applications for pre-clearance, reporting of trades executed, reporting of 
decisions not to trade after securing pre-clearance 113[***] and for reporting level of holdings in 
securities at such intervals as may be determined as being necessary to monitor compliance with 
these regulations.  
 
12.  114[Without prejudice to the power of the Board under the Act, the code of conduct shall 
stipulate the sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, recovery, etc., 
that may be imposed, by the listed company required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-
                                                           
112 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
113 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “recording of reasons for such decisions”. 
114 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020). Prior to the substitution, clause 12 read as follows: - 
 “Without prejudice to the power of the Board under the Act, the code of conduct shall stipulate the 
sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, recovery, clawback etc., that may be 
imposed, by the listed company required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-regulation (1) of 
regulation 9, for the contravention of the code of conduct”.

[Page 64]
regulation (1) of regulation 9, for the contravention of the code of conduct. Any amount 
collected under this clause shall be remitted to the Board for credit to the Investor Protection and 
Education Fund administered by the Board under the Act.] 
 
13. The code of conduct shall specify that in case it is observed by the 115[listed company] 
required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-regulation (1) 116[***]of regulation 9, that 
there has been a violation of these regulations, 117[it] shall 118[promptly inform the stock 
exchange(s) where the concerned securities are traded, in such form and such manner as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time].  
 
119[14.  Designated persons shall be required to disclose names and Permanent Account Number 
or any other identifier authorized by law of the following persons to the company on an annual 
basis and as and when the information changes: 
 
a) immediate relatives 
b) persons with whom such designated person(s) shares a material financial 
relationship 
c) Phone, mobile and cell numbers which are used by them 
 
In addition, the names of educational institutions from which designated persons have graduated 
and names of their past employers shall also be disclosed on a one time basis. 
 
Explanation – The term “material financial relationship” shall mean a relationship in which one 
person is a recipient of any kind of payment such as by way of a loan or gift 120[from a 
                                                           
115 Substituted for the word “persons” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
116 Omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) which earlier read as “and sub-regulation (2)” 
117 Substituted for the word “they” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
118 Substituted for the words “inform the Board promptly” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020). 
119 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)

[Page 65]
designated person] during the immediately preceding twelve months, equivalent to at least 25% 
121[of the annual income of such designated person] but shall exclude relationships in which the 
payment is based on arm’s length transactions.] 
 
122[15. Listed entities shall have a process for how and when people are brought ‘inside’ on 
sensitive transactions. Individuals should be made aware of the duties and responsibilities 
attached to the receipt of Inside Information, and the liability that attaches to misuse or 
unwarranted use of such information.] 
 
123[SCHEDULE B1 
(See Regulation 5F of Chapter - IIA) 
 
Minimum Standards of Code of Conduct for Mutual Funds to regulate, monitor and 
report trading by the Designated Persons in the units of own mutual fund schemes 
 
1. The compliance officer shall report to the board of directors of asset management 
company and provide reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the asset 
management company and to the trustees, at such frequency as may be stipulated by the 
board of directors, but in any case not less than once in a year.  
 
2. The information shall be handled within the organisation on a need-to-know basis and 
no unpublished price sensitive information shall be communicated to any person except in 
furtherance of legitimate purpose, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations. 
The code of conduct shall contain norms for appropriate Chinese Walls procedures and 
processes for permitting any designated person to “cross the wall”.  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                           
120 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
121 Substituted for the words “of such payer’s annual income” by Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
122 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019) 
123 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 (w.e.f. November 1, 2024)

[Page 66]
3. Designated Persons and immediate relatives of designated persons in the organisation 
shall be governed by an internal code of conduct governing dealings in units of the mutual 
fund.  
 
4. (1)Designated persons may deal in the units of the mutual fund subject to compliance 
with these regulations. The compliance officer of the asset management company shall 
determine the closure period during which a Designated Person or class of Designated 
Persons can reasonably be expected to have possession of unpublished price sensitive 
information. Such closure period shall be imposed in relation to such schemes to which 
such unpublished price sensitive information relates. During such time, any requests to 
transact in the units of the mutual funds by the Designated Persons and/or their 
immediate relatives shall not be processed by the asset management company. 
 
(2) The closure period restrictions mentioned in sub-clause (1) shall not apply in respect 
of transactions specified in clauses (i) to (iii) of the proviso to sub-regulation (1) of 
regulation 5D and in respect to the pledge of mutual fund units for a bonafide purpose, 
subject to pre-clearance by the compliance officer and compliance with the other 
requirements, if any, as may be specified by the Board. 
 
5. The timing for re-opening of the closure period shall be determined by the compliance 
officer taking into account various factors including the unpublished price sensitive 
information in question becoming generally available and being capable of assimilation by 
the market.  
 
6. When the closure period is not applicable, trading in the mutual fund units by 
Designated Persons and their immediate relatives including at the time of initiation of 
systematic transactions  shall be subject to pre-clearance by the compliance officer, if the 
value of the proposed trades is above such thresholds (separate thresholds for systematic 
transactions and lumpsum payments) as the Board of AMCs may stipulate:

[Page 67]
Provided that for transactions in units by the Designated Persons pursuant to the mandatory 
requirement under ‘Alignment of interest of Key Employees (‘Designated Employees’) of 
asset management companies with the unit holders of the mutual fund schemes’ or 
otherwise shall be as specified by the Board in this regard: 
 
Provided further that the requirement of pre-clearance of trades by Designated Persons 
shall not apply for trading in Overnight Schemes, Index funds and Exchange Traded 
Funds. 
 
7. Prior to approving any trades, the compliance officer shall be entitled to seek a 
declaration to the effect that the applicant for pre-clearance is not in possession of any 
unpublished price sensitive information with due regard to whether any such declaration is 
reasonably capable of being rendered inaccurate. 
 
8. The code of conduct formulated by the  chief executive officer or managing director  of 
the asset management company shall specify any reasonable timeframe, which in any event 
shall not be more than seven business days, within which trades that have been pre-cleared 
have to be executed by the Designated Person, failing which fresh pre-clearance shall be 
required for the trades to be executed. 
 
9. The code of conduct shall also specify the period, which in any event shall not be less 
than two months, within which a Designated Person who is permitted to trade shall not 
execute a contra trade. The compliance officer may be empowered to grant relaxation from 
the strict application of such restriction for reasons to be recorded in writing provided that 
such relaxation does not violate these regulations or other requirements specified by the 
Board. In case a contra trade is executed, inadvertently or otherwise, in violation of such a 
restriction, the profits or loss avoided from such trade shall be liable to be disgorged by the 
asset management company and credited under intimation to the Board,  to the Investor 
Protection and Education Fund established by the Board under the Act: 
Provided that trading restrictions imposed for contra trade shall not be applicable for 
Overnight Schemes.

[Page 68]
10. The code of conduct shall also stipulate such formats as the board of directors deem 
necessary for making applications for reporting of trades executed and for reporting level 
of holdings in units of mutual funds at such intervals as may be determined as being 
necessary to monitor compliance with these regulations.  
 
11. The code of conduct shall stipulate the internal sanctions and disciplinary actions, 
including wage freeze, suspension, recovery, etc., that may be imposed by the asset 
management company for the contravention of the code of conduct. Any amount collected 
under this clause shall be disgorged by the asset management company and credited under 
intimation to the Board, to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established by the 
Board under the Act. 
 
12. The code of conduct shall specify that in case it is observed by the asset management 
company that there has been a violation of these regulations, it shall promptly inform to the 
stock exchange(s), in such form and such manner as may be specified by the Board from 
time to time. 
 
13. Designated Persons shall be required to disclose names and Permanent Account 
Number or any other identifier authorized by law of the following persons to the mutual 
fund on an annual basis and as and when the information changes:  
a) immediate relatives  
b) persons with whom such Designated Person(s) shares a material financial 
relationship  
c) Phone, mobile and cell numbers which are used by them  
In addition, the names of educational institutions from which Designated Persons have 
graduated and names of their past employers shall also be disclosed on a one time basis.  
Explanation – The term “material financial relationship” shall mean a relationship in which 
one person is a recipient of any kind of payment such as by way of a loan or gift from a 
Designated Person during the immediately preceding twelve months, equivalent to at least

[Page 69]
25% of the annual income of such Designated Person but shall exclude relationships in 
which the payment is based on arm’s length transactions. 
 
14. Mutual funds shall have a process that would determine how an individual  is brought 
‘inside’ to access sensitive transactions and shall be made aware of the duties and 
responsibilities attached to the receipt of such Inside Information and the liability that is 
attached to the misuse or unwarranted use of such information.] 
 
 
124[SCHEDULE C 
[See sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9] 
 
Minimum Standards for Code of Conduct for Intermediaries and Fiduciaries to Regulate, 
Monitor and Report Trading by Designated Persons 
 
1. The compliance officer shall report to the board of directors or head(s) of the organisation (or 
committee constituted in this regard) and in particular, shall provide reports to the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee or other analogous body, if any, or to the Chairman of the board of 
directors or head(s) of the organisation at such frequency as may be stipulated by the board of 
directors or head(s) of the organization but not less than once in a year. 
 
2. All information shall be handled within the organisation on a need-to-know basis and no 
unpublished price sensitive information shall be communicated to any person except in 
furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations. The 
code of conduct shall contain norms for appropriate Chinese Wall procedures, and processes for 
permitting any designated person to “cross the wall”.  
 
3. Designated persons and immediate relatives of designated persons in the organisation shall be 
governed by an internal code of conduct governing dealing in securities. 
                                                           
124 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 (w.e.f. April 01, 2019)

[Page 70]
4. Designated persons may execute trades subject to compliance with these regulations. Trading 
by designated persons shall be subject to pre- clearance by the compliance officer(s), if the value 
of the proposed trades is above such thresholds as the board of directors or head(s) of the 
organisation may stipulate. 
 
5. The compliance officer shall confidentially maintain a list of such securities as a “restricted 
list” which shall be used as the basis for approving or rejecting applications for pre-clearance of 
trades. 
 
6. Prior to approving any trades, the compliance officer shall seek declarations to the effect that 
the applicant for pre-clearance is not in possession of any unpublished price sensitive 
information. He shall also have regard to whether any such declaration is reasonably capable of 
being rendered inaccurate. 
 
7. The code of conduct shall specify any reasonable timeframe, which in any event shall not be 
more than seven trading days, within which trades that have been pre-cleared have to be 
executed by the designated person, failing which fresh pre-clearance would be needed for the 
trades to be executed. 
 
8. The code of conduct shall specify the period, which in any event shall not be less than six 
months, within which a designated person who is a connected person of the listed company and 
is permitted to trade in the securities of such listed company, shall not execute a contra trade. 
125[In case of dealing in the units of mutual funds, the code  of  conduct  shall  specify  the  
period,  which  in  any  event  shall  not  be  less  than  two months, within which a Designated 
Person who is a connected person of the mutual fund/asset management company/trustees and is  
permitted  to  trade  in  the  units of such mutual fund,  shall  not  execute  a  contra  trade.]  The 
compliance officer may be empowered to grant relaxation from strict application of such 
restriction for reasons to be recorded in writing provided that such relaxation does not violate 
                                                           
125 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 (w.e.f. November 1, 2024)

[Page 71]
these regulations. Should a contra trade be executed, inadvertently or otherwise, in violation of 
such a restriction, the profits from such trade shall be liable to be disgorged for remittance to the 
Board for credit to the Investor Protection and Education Fund administered by the Board under 
the Act. 
Provided that this shall not be applicable for trades pursuant to exercise of stock options. 
 
9. The code of conduct shall stipulate such formats as the board of directors or head(s) of the 
organisation (or committee constituted in this regard) deems necessary for making applications 
for pre-clearance, reporting of trades executed, reporting of decisions not to trade after securing 
pre-clearance, and for reporting level of holdings in securities at such intervals as may be 
determined as being necessary to monitor compliance with these regulations. 
 
10. 126[Without prejudice to the power of the Board under the Act, the code of conduct shall 
stipulate the sanctions and disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, recovery, etc., 
that may be imposed, by the intermediary or fiduciary required to formulate a code of conduct 
under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9, for the contravention of the code 
of conduct. Any amount collected under this clause shall be remitted to the Board for credit to 
the Investor Protection and Education Fund administered by the Board under the Act.] 
 
11. The code of conduct shall specify that in case it is observed by the intermediary or fiduciary 
required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2) of 
regulation 9, respectively, that there has been a violation of these regulations, such intermediary 
or fiduciary shall 127[promptly inform the stock exchange(s) where the concerned securities are 
traded, in such form and such manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time]. 
 
                                                           
126 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020). Prior to the substitution, clause 10 read as follows: -  
“Without prejudice to the power of the Board under the Act, the code of conduct shall stipulate the sanctions and 
disciplinary actions, including wage freeze, suspension, recovery, clawback etc., that may be imposed, by the 
intermediary or fiduciary required to formulate a code of conduct under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of 
regulation 9, for the contravention of the code of conduct.” 
127 Substituted for the words “inform the Board promptly” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. July 17, 2020).

[Page 72]
128[11A.  In case of dealing in the units of mutual funds, the code of conduct shall specify that in 
case it is observed by the intermediary or fiduciary required to formulate a code of conduct under 
sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5F, that there has been a violation of these regulations, such 
intermediary or fiduciary shall promptly inform the same to the stock exchange(s) in such form 
and such manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
12. All designated persons shall be required to disclose name and Permanent Account Number or 
any other identifier authorized by law of the following to the intermediary or fiduciary on an 
annual basis and as and when the information changes: 
a) immediate relatives 
b) persons with whom such designated person(s) shares a material financial relationship 
c) Phone,  mobile, and cell numbers which are used by them 
In addition, names of 129[educational] institutions from which designated persons have 
130[graduated] and names of their past employers shall also be disclosed on a one time basis. 
Explanation – the term “material financial relationship” shall mean a relationship in which one 
person is a recipient of any kind of payment such as by way of a loan or gift 131[from a 
designated person] during the immediately preceding twelve months, equivalent to at least 25% 
132[of the annual income of such designated person] but shall exclude relationships in which the 
payment is based on arm’s length transactions. 
 
13. Intermediaries and fiduciaries shall have a process for how and when people are brought 
‘inside’ on sensitive transactions. Individuals should be made aware of the duties and 
responsibilities attached to the receipt of Inside Information, and the liability that attaches to 
misuse or unwarranted use of such information.] 
                                                           
128 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 (w.e.f. November 1, 2024)  
129 Substituted for the word “educations” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
130 Substituted for the word “studied” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
131 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019) 
132 Substituted for the words “of such payer’s annual income” by Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. July 25, 2019)

[Page 73]
133[SCHEDULE D 
[See regulation 7B] 
Form for Informant’s Voluntary Information Disclosure to be submitted to the Board.  
Note: For submission of information through a legal representative, the redacted copy of 
the Form expunging information that may identify the Informant shall be submitted by 
the legal representative without expunging any information relating to the legal 
representative and the details relating to the violation of 134[insider trading laws]. 
 
*Indicates that the required field is non-mandatorily, remaining fields are mandatory 
I. PERSONAL INFORMATION OF THE INFORMANT 
A.INDIVIDUAL 1: 
Last 
Name:………………… 
 
First 
Name:………………… 
 
Title:……………… 
Address: City / State: PIN: 
Telephone (with State 
Code): 
Mobile: E-Mail address: 
 
Employment Details*: 
 
Permanent Account Number, if 
available: 
II. LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE (where applicable) 
Last 
Name:……………… 
First 
Name:…………………… 
Title:……………… 
Firm Name (if not self-employed): 
 
Contact address : City / State: PIN: 
Residence address:  City / State: PIN: 
                                                           
133 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019) 
134 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. October 29, 2020). Prior to the amendment it read as “securities laws”.

[Page 74]
Telephone (with State 
Code): 
Mobile: E-Mail address: 
Bar Council Enrolment 
Number: 
  
III SUBMISSION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION 
1. Is it a violation of 135[insider trading laws]? Yes / No 
2. If yes to question (1), please describe the type of violation: 
3. Has the violation: Occurred / Occurring / Potential to occur in future 
4. If the violation has occurred, date of occurrence: dd/mm/yy 
(in case exact date is not known, an approximate period may be entered) 
5. Have the individual(s) or their representatives had any prior 
communication(s) or representations with the Board concerning this matter? 
Yes (Details thereof) /  No  
6. Does this violation relate to an entity of which the individual is or was an 
officer, director, counsel, employee, consultant or contractor? Yes (Details 
thereof)  /  No 
7. If yes to question (6), was the original information submitted first to your 
Head or internal legal and compliance office? Yes / No 
8. If yes question (7), then please provide,  
Date of submission of original information: dd/mm/yy 
9. 136[Please describe in detail how the information submitted by you 
constitutes a violation of insider trading laws. The details must include 
specific information with respect to: 
(i) details of the securities in which insider trading is alleged; 
(ii) the unpublished price sensitive information based on which insider 
trading is alleged; 
(iii) date on which the unpublished price sensitive information was made 
                                                           
135 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. October 29, 2020). Prior to the amendment it read as “securities laws”. 
136 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. October 29, 2020). Prior to the amendment it read as “Please describe in detail why you 
think the information submitted is a violation?”.

[Page 75]
public; 
(iv) details of circumstances/evidence leading to possession of 
unpublished price sensitive information by the alleged violator(s); 
(v) details of insiders/suspects and their trades (i.e. purchase/sale and 
quantity purchased/sold) along with dates/period of trades.] 
10. What facts or supporting material is your allegation based on? 
137[Please include self-certified copies of all the relevant documents.]  
Please attach any additional documents to this form, if necessary. 
11. Identify any documents or other information in your submission that you 
believe could reasonably be expected to reveal your identity and explain the 
basis for your belief that your identity would be revealed if the documents 
were disclosed to a third party. 
 
12. Provide details of connection amongst the Informant, the company whose 
securities are involved and the person against whom information is being 
provided: 
 
IV. DECLARATION 
I/we hereby declare that,- 
A. I/we have read and understood the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 
 
B. I/we accept that mere furnishing of information by me/us does not 
by itself confer on me/us right to get reward and that I/we may not 
get any Reward at all. I/we would be bound by the decisions that the 
authority competent to grant reward may take; 
 
C. I/we accept that the Securities and Exchange Board of India is under 
no obligation to enter into any correspondence regarding action or 
inaction taken as a result of my/our information.  
 
                                                           
137 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020 (w.e.f. October 29, 2020).

[Page 76]
D. I/we accept that the reward would be an ex-gratia payment which, 
subject to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, shall be granted at the absolute 
discretion of the competent authority. The decision of the authority 
shall be acceptable to me/us and I/we shall not challenge it in any 
litigation, appeal, adjudication, etc. 
 
E. In the event of my/our death before the reward us paid to me/us, it 
may be paid to …………. (Details of nominee) 
 
F. I/we declare that the information contained herein is true, correct 
and complete to the best of my/our knowledge and belief and not 
obtained from the categories of persons indicated in sub-regulation 
(2) and sub-regulation (6) of regulation 7G of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015 and agree to indemnify the Board in case it is not 
so found. I/we fully understand that I/we may be subject to action 
under securities laws as well as Section 182 of the Indian Penal 
Code, 1860 (45 of 1860) and ineligible for Reward if, in my/our 
submission of information or in any other dealings with the Board, 
I/we knowingly and wilfully make any false, fictitious, or fraudulent 
statements or representations, or use any false writing or document 
knowing that the writing or document contains any false, fictitious, 
or fraudulent statement. 
 
Signature:…………………………….                                  Date: dd/mm/yy 
Place: 
V. CERTIFICATE BY LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE (where the 
information is submitted through legal representative)

[Page 77]
I hereby certify as follows,- 
(a) I have reviewed the completed and signed Voluntary 
Information Disclosure Form for completeness and accuracy 
and the information contained therein is true, correct and 
complete to the best of my knowledge; 
 
(b) I have irrevocable consent from the Declarant, to provide to 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the original 
Voluntary Information Disclosure Form in the event of a 
request for it from the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India due to concerns that the Informant has not complied 
with these regulations or where the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India requires the said information for the purpose 
of verification for declaring any gratuitous reward to the 
Informant or where the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India determines that it is necessary to seek such information 
to accomplish the purpose of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act including for the protection of investors, 
sharing with foreign securities regulators and foreign and 
Indian law enforcement agencies, etc.;  
 
(c) I am and shall continue to be legally obligated to provide the 
original Voluntary Information Disclosure Form without 
demur within seven (7) calendar days of receiving such 
request from the Securities and Exchange Board of India.  
 
Signature:…………………………….                                  Date: dd/mm/yy 
Place: 
 
 ]

[Page 78]
138[SCHEDULE E 
 [See regulations 7D and 7E] 
Form for Informant’s Reward Claim to be submitted to the Board within the time 
specified in the intimation of prima facie eligibility to receive an Informant Reward. 
All fields are mandatory 
 
I. PERSONAL INFORMATION 
A. Informant:  
Last name:--------------------- 
 
First Name:------------------------ 
 
Title:----------------- 
 
Address: City / State: PIN: 
Telephone (with State code): Mobile: E-Mail Address: 
Employment Details: Permanent Account Number: 
 
II ORIGINAL INFORMATION SUBMITTED 
Online Acknowledgment Receipt Number: 
(Annex Original Form for Voluntary Information Disclosure, if not yet submitted to 
Securities and Exchange Board of India) 
 
Subject matter of submission: 
 
Date of submission: dd/mm/20 
 
Case Name: 
 
SEBI Order No.: 
 
Date: dd/mm/20 
III CONSIDERATION FOR REWARD 
Provide any material information that may be relevant in light of the criteria for 
determining the amount of Reward or denial thereof. Include any supporting documents 
if necessary.  
 
IV DECLARATION BY INFORMANT 
                                                           
138 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019 (w.e.f. December 26, 2019)

[Page 79]
I/we hereby declare that,- 
A. I/we have read and understood the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 
 
B. I/we accept that mere furnishing of information by me/us does not by 
itself confer on me/us right to get reward and that I/we may not get any 
Reward at all. I/we would be bound by the decisions that the authority 
competent to grant reward may take; 
 
C. I/we accept that the Securities and Exchange Board of India is under no 
obligation to pay any reward or enter into any correspondence regarding 
action or inaction taken as a result of this communication.  
 
D. I/we accept that the reward would be an ex-gratia payment which, 
subject to the Securities and Exchange Board of India Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, shall be granted at the absolute 
discretion of the competent authority. The decision of the authority shall 
be acceptable to me/us and I/we shall not challenge it in any litigation, 
appeal, adjudication, etc. 
 
E. In the event of my/our death before the reward is paid to me/us, it may 
be paid to …………. (Details of nominee) 
 
F. I/we declare that the information contained herein is true, correct and 
complete to the best of my/our knowledge and belief and not obtained 
from the categories of persons indicated in sub-regulation (2) and sub-
regulation (6) of regulation 7G of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and agree to 
indemnify the Board in case it is not so found. I/we fully understand that 
I/we may be subject to action under securities laws as well as Section 
182 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of 1860) and ineligible for an 
Informant Reward if, in my/our submission of information or in any

[Page 80]
other dealings with the Board, I/we knowingly and wilfully make any 
false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations, or use any 
false writing or document knowing that the writing or document 
contains any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement. 
 
Signature:…………………………….                                  Date: dd/mm/yy 
Place: 
 
 
V CERTIFICATE BY LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE (where applicable) 
I hereby certify as follows,- 
(a) I have reviewed the completed and signed claim form for 
completeness and accuracy and the information contained 
therein is true, correct and complete to the best of my 
knowledge; and 
 
(b) The declarant is the person who signed the original Voluntary 
Information Disclosure Form.  
 
Signature:…………………………….                                  Date: dd/mm/yy 
Place: 
] 
 
Sd/-  
U. K. SINHA 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

[Page 81]
Footnote: 
1.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015 was published in the Gazette of India on January 15, 2015 vide No. LAD-
NRO/GN/2014-15/21/85. 
2.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015 was subsequently amended on, - 
i.  December 31, 2018 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/59. 
ii.  January 21, 2019 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2019/02. 
iii.  July 25, 2019 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2019/23. 
iv. September 17, 2019 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2019/32. 
v.  July 17, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2020/23. 
vi.  October 29, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2020/38. 
vii. April 26, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/17. 
viii. August 05,2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2021/37. 
ix. November 24, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2022/108.

[Page 82]
x. May 17, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/181. 
xi. June 25, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2024/184. 
xii. December 6, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2024/216. 
xiii. March 12, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/235.
