[Page 1]
1 
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (PROHIBITION OF 
FRAUDULENT AND UNFAIR TRADE PRACTICES RELATING TO 
SECURITIES MARKET) REGULATIONS, 2003 
 
Amended upto December 5, 2025 
 
 
S.O. 816 (E). - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes the following 
regulations, namely:— 
 
 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
 
Short title and commencement 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) 
Regulations, 2003. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
 
 
Definitions 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,— 
(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b)   1[“dealing in securities” includes:  
 
(i)  an act of buying, selling or subscribing pursuant to any issue of any security or 
agreeing to buy, sell or subscribe to any issue of any security or otherwise 
transacting in any way in any security by any persons including as principal, 
agent, or intermediary referred to in section 12 of the Act 2[, either by themselves 
or through mule accounts];  
 
(ii)  such acts which may be knowingly designed to influence the decision of 
investors in securities; and  
 
(iii) any act of providing assistance to carry out the aforementioned acts.] 
                                                           
1 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018. w.e.f. from February 1, 2019 . 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
“dealing in securities” includes an act of buying, selling or subscribing pursuant to any issue of any security or 
agreeing to buy, sell or subscribe to any issue of any security  or  otherwise  transacting  in  any  way  in  any  
security  by  any  person  as principal, agent or intermediary referred to in section 12 of the Act." 
2 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 . w.e.f. July 1, 2024.

[Page 2]
2 
 
 
(c)  “fraud” includes any act, expression, omission or concealment committed whether in 
a deceitful manner or not by a person or by any other person with his connivance or 
by his agent while dealing in securities in order to induce another person or his agent 
to deal in securities, whether or not there is any wrongful gain or avoidance of any 
loss, and shall also include— 
(1)  a knowing misrepresentation of the truth or concealment of material fact in order 
that another person may act to his detriment; 
(2)  a suggestion as to a fact which is not true by one who does not believe it to be 
true; 
(3)  an active concealment of a fact by a person having knowledge or belief of the 
fact; 
(4)  a promise made without any intention of performing it; 
(5)  a representation made in a reckless and careless manner whether it be true or 
false; 
 (6)  any such act or omission as any other law specifically declares to be fraudulent, 
 (7) deceptive behaviour by a person depriving another of informed consent or full 
participation, 
(8) a false statement made without reasonable ground for believing it to be true. 
(9) the act of an issuer of securities giving out misinformation that affects the market 
price of the security, resulting in investors being effectively misled even though 
they did not rely on the statement itself or anything derived from it other than the 
market price. 
 
 
And “fraudulent” shall be construed accordingly; 
 
Nothing contained in this clause shall apply to any general comments made in good faith in 
regard to— 
(a) the economic policy of the government  
(b)  the economic situation of the country  
(c) trends in the securities market or 
(d)  any other matter of a like nature 
 
 
whether such comments are made in public or in private; 
 
 
(d)  “Investigating Authority” means any 3[person] authorized by the Board to undertake 
investigation under section 11C of the Act;  
 
                                                           
3 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. March 13, 2020. 
Before the substitution the words read as “ officer of the Board not below the rank of Division Chief, ".

[Page 3]
3 
 
4[(da) “mule account” includes a trading account maintained with a stock broker or a 
dematerialised account or bank account linked with such trading account in the name(s) of 
a person, where the account is effectively controlled by another person, whether or not the 
consideration for transactions in the account are paid by such other person;] 
 
 
(e) “securities”  means  securities  as  defined  in  section  2  of  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956). 
 
 
5[(2) The words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in 
the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Depositories Act, 
1996 (22 of 1996), the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), or any rules or regulations made 
thereunder shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in those acts, rules 
or regulations made thereunder or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the 
case may be.]  
 
 
CHAPTER II 
PROHIBITION OF FRAUDULENT AND UNFAIR TRADE 
PRACTICES RELATING TO THE SECURITIES MARKET 
 
3. Prohibition of certain dealings in securities 
No person shall directly or indirectly— 
(a) buy, sell or otherwise deal in securities in a fraudulent manner; 
(b)  use or employ, in connection with issue, purchase or sale of any security listed or 
proposed to be listed in a recognized stock exchange, any manipulative or deceptive 
device or contrivance in contravention of the provisions of the Act or the rules or the 
regulations made there under; 
(c)  employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud in connection with dealing in or 
issue of securities which are listed or proposed to be listed on a recognized stock 
exchange; 
(d)  engage in any act, practice, course of business which operates or would operate as 
fraud  or  deceit  upon  any  person  in  connection  with  any  dealing  in  or  issue  of 
securities which are listed or proposed to be listed on a recognized stock exchange in 
                                                           
4 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 . w.e.f. July 1, 2024. 
5 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022. Before the substitution 
the provision read as follows: 
 “(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations, but defined in the Act or in the rules or 
regulations made thereunder, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act or rules or 
regulations made thereunder, as the case may be. "

[Page 4]
4 
 
contravention of the provisions of the Act or the rules and the regulations made there 
under. 
 
 
4. Prohibition of manipulative, fraudulent and unfair trade practices 
(1)  Without prejudice to the provisions of regulation 3, no person shall indulge in a 
6[manipulative,] fraudulent or an unfair trade practice in securities 7[markets]. 
 
8[Explanation.– For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that- 
(i) any act of diversion, misutilisation or siphoning off of assets or earnings of a 
company whose securities are listed or any concealment of such act or any device, 
scheme or artifice to manipulate the books of accounts or financial statement of such a 
company that would directly or indirectly manipulate the price of securities of that 
company, or 
(ii) transactions through mule accounts for indulging in manipulative, fraudulent and 
unfair trade practice shall be and shall always be deemed to have been included in 
sub-regulation (1).] 
 
(2)  Dealing in securities shall be deemed to be a 9[manipulative] fraudulent or an unfair 
trade practice if it involves 10[any of the following]:— 
(a)  11[knowingly] indulging in an act which creates false or misleading appearance 
of trading in the securities market; 
 
 
(b)  dealing in a security not intended to effect transfer of beneficial ownership but 
intended to operate only as a device to inflate, depress or cause fluctuations in 
the price of such security for wrongful gain or avoidance of loss; 
 
 
                                                           
6 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
7 ibid 
8 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 . w.e.f. July 1, 2024. Before the substitution the 
Explanation read as follows: 
“Explanation.– For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that any act of diversion, misutilisation or siphoning off 
of assets or earnings of a company whose securities are listed or any concealment of such act or any device, 
scheme or artifice to manipulate the books of accounts or financial statement of such a company that would 
directly or indirectly manipulate the price of securities of that company shall be and shall always be deemed to 
have been considered as manipulative, fraudulent and an unfair trade practice in the securities market.” 
9 ibid 
10 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
Before the substitution the words read as "fraud and may include all or any of the following, namely ". 
11 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019.

[Page 5]
5 
 
12[(c) inducing any person to subscribe to an issue of the  securities for fraudulently 
securing the minimum subscription to such issue of securities, by advancing or 
agreeing to advance any money to any other person or through any other means;] 
 
 
13[(d)  inducing any person for dealing in any securities for artificially inflating, 
depressing, maintaining or causing fluctuation in the price of securities through 
any means including by paying, offering or agreeing to pay or offer any money or 
money's worth, directly or indirectly, to any person;] 
 
 
(e) any act or omission amounting to manipulation of the price of a security 
14[including, influencing or manipulating the reference price or bench mark price of 
any securities]; 
 
 
(f)  15[knowingly] publishing or causing to publish or reporting or causing to report 
by a person dealing in securities any information 16[relating to securities, 
including financial results, financial statements, mergers and acquisitions, 
regulatory approvals,] which is not true or which he does not believe to be true 
prior to or in the course of dealing in securities; 
 
 
(g) entering into a transaction in securities without intention of performing it or 
without intention of change of ownership of such security; 
 
 
17[(h) selling, dealing or pledging of stolen, counterfeit or fraudulently issued 
securities whether in physical or dematerialized form:  
Provided that if:- 
(i) the person selling, dealing in or pledging stolen, counterfeit or fraudulently 
                                                           
12 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
"(c) advancing or agreeing to advance any money to any person thereby inducing any other person to offer to 
buy any security in any issue only with the intention of securing the minimum subscription to such issue; " 
13 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
"(d)  paying, offering or agreeing to pay or offer, directly or indirectly, to any person any  money  or  money’s  
worth  for  inducing  such  person  for  dealing  in  any security  with  the  object  of  inflating,  depressing,  
maintaining  or  causing fluctuation in the price of such security; " 
14 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
15 ibid 
16 ibid 
17 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
"(h) selling, dealing or pledging of stolen or counterfeit security whether in physical or dematerialized form; "

[Page 6]
6 
 
issued securities was a holder in due course; or  
(ii) the stolen, counterfeit or fraudulently issued securities were previously traded 
on the market through a bonafide transaction,  
(iii) such selling, dealing or pledging of stolen, counterfeit or fraudulently issued 
securities shall not be considered as a manipulative, fraudulent, or unfair 
trade practice;] 
 
 
18[(i)  ***] 
 
 
19[(j)  ***] 
 
20[(k) disseminating information or advice through any media, whether physical or 
digital, which the disseminator knows to be false or misleading in a reckless or 
careless manner and which is designed to, or likely to influence the decision of 
investors dealing in securities;] 
 
 
21[(l) ***]; 
 
 
(m) 22[a market participant entering into transactions on behalf of client without the 
knowledge of or instructions from client or misutilizing or diverting the funds or 
securities of the client held in fiduciary capacity"]; 
 
 
                                                           
18 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
19 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
20 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022. Before the 
substitution the provision read as follows: 
“disseminating information or advice through any media, whether physical or digital, which the disseminator 
knows to be false or misleading and which is designed or likely to influence the decision of investors dealing in 
securities;” 
The provisions was previously substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. 
February 01, 2019 and before the said substitution the provision read as follows: 
"an advertisement that is misleading or that contains information in a distorted manner and which may 
influence the decision of the investors". 
21 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
22 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
"an intermediary not disclosing to his client transactions entered into on his behalf including taking an option 
position;"

[Page 7]
7 
 
(n) circular transactions in respect of a security entered into between 23[persons 
including intermediaries to artificially] provide a false appearance of trading in 
such security or to inflate, depress or cause fluctuations in the price of such 
security; 
 
 
(o) 24[fraudulent inducement of any person by a market participant to deal in securities 
with the objective of enhancing his brokerage or commission or income;] 
 
(p) an intermediary predating or otherwise falsifying records 25[including contract 
notes, client instructions, balance of securities statement, client account 
statements]; 
 
(q) 26[any order in securities placed by a person, while directly or indirectly in 
possession of information that is not publically available, regarding a substantial 
impending transaction in that securities, its underlying securities or its derivative;] 
 
 
(r)  27[knowingly] planting  false  or  misleading  news  which  may  induce  sale  
or  purchase  of securities. 
 
28[(s) 29{mis-selling of securities or services relating to securities market; 
                                                           
23 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
Before the substitution the words read as "intermediaries in order to increase commission to" 
24 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
"encouraging the clients by an intermediary to deal in securities solely with the object of enhancing his 
brokerage or commission;" 
25 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019.  
Before the substitution the words read as "such as contract notes" 
26 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
"an intermediary buying or selling securities in advance of a substantial client order or whereby a futures or 
option position is taken about an impending transaction in the same or related futures or options contract;" 
27 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
28 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012 w.e.f. December 11, 2012. 
29 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows 
"mis-selling of units of a mutual fund scheme; 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this clause, "mis-selling" means sale of units of a mutual fund scheme by any 
person, directly or indirectly, by─

[Page 8]
8 
 
Explanation- For the purpose of this clause, "mis-selling" means sale of 
securities or services relating to securities market by any person, directly or 
indirectly, by─  
(i) knowingly making a false or misleading statement, or  
(ii) knowingly concealing or omitting material facts, or  
(iii)knowingly concealing the associated risk, or  
(iv) not taking reasonable care to ensure suitability of the securities or 
service to the buyer}]; 
 
30[(t) illegal mobilization of funds by sponsoring or causing to be sponsored or 
carrying on or causing to be carried on any collective investment scheme by any 
person.] 
 
31[Explanation 32{–1} For the purposes of this sub-regulation, for the removal of doubts, it 
is clarified that the acts or omissions listed in this sub-regulation are not exhaustive and 
that an act or omission is prohibited if it falls within the purview of regulation 3, 
notwithstanding that it is not included in this sub-regulation or is described as being 
committed only by a certain category of persons in this sub-regulation.]   
 
33[Explanation – 2  Market Participant shall include any person or entity registered under 
Section 12 of the Act and its employees and agents.] 
 
 
CHAPTER III 
INVESTIGATION 
 
 
Power of the Board to order investigation 
5. Where the Board, the Chairman, the member or the Executive Director (hereinafter 
referred to as “appointing authority”) has reasonable ground to believe that— 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                    
(i) making a false or misleading statement, or 
(ii) concealing or omitting material facts of the scheme, or 
(iii)concealing the associated risk factors of the scheme, or 
(iv) not taking reasonable care to ensure suitability of the scheme to the buyer." 
30 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. September 6, 2013. 
31 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. September 6, 2013. 
32 Re-numbered vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
33 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019.

[Page 9]
9 
 
(a)  the transactions in securities are being dealt with in a manner detrimental to the 
investors or the securities market in violation of these regulations; 
(b)  any intermediary or any person associated with the securities market has violated any 
of the provisions of the Act or the rules or the regulations, 
it may, at any time by order in writing, direct any 34[person] (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Investigating Authority”) specified in the order to investigate the affairs of such 
intermediary or persons associated with the securities market or any other person and to 
report thereon to the Board in the manner provided in section 
11C of the Act. 
 
 
 
Powers of Investigating Authority 
6. Without prejudice to the powers conferred under the Act, the Investigating Authority 
shall have the following powers for the conduct of investigation, namely:— 
 
(1)  to call for information or records from any person specified in section 11(2)(i) of the 
Act; 
 
(2)  to undertake inspection of any book, or register, or other document or record of any 
listed public company or a public company (not being intermediaries referred to in 
section 12 of the Act) which intends to get its securities listed on any recognized stock 
exchange where the Investigating Authority has reasonable grounds to believe that 
such company has been conducting 35[its activities] in violation of these regulations;  
(3)  to require any intermediary or any person associated with securities market in any 
manner to furnish such information to, or produce such books, or registers, or other 
documents, or record before him or any person authorized by him in this behalf as he 
may consider necessary if the furnishing of such information or the production of 
such books, or registers, or other documents, or record is relevant or necessary for the 
purposes of the investigation; 
 
(4) to keep in his custody any books, registers, other documents and record produced 
under this regulation for a maximum period of 36[ ] six months 37[ ]: 
 
Provided that the Investigating Authority may call for any book, register, other 
                                                           
34 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. March 13, 2020. 
Before the substitution the words read as “ officer not below the rank of Division Chief ". 
35 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022. 
36 The words “ one month which may be extended upto a period of ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022. 
37 The words “by the Board” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent 
and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 
2022.

[Page 10]
10 
 
document or record if the same is needed again: 
 
Provided further that if the person on whose behalf the books, registers, other 
documents and record are produced requires certified copies of the books, registers, 
other documents and record produced before the Investigating Authority, he shall give 
certified copies of such books, registers, other documents and record to such person or 
on whose behalf the books, registers, other documents and record were produced; 
 
(5)  to examine orally and to record the statement of the person concerned or any director, 
partner,  member  or  employee  of  such  person  and  to  take  notes  of  such  oral 
examination to be used as an evidence against such person :  
Provided that the said notes shall be read over to, or by, and signed by, the person so 
examined;  
(6)  to examine on oath any manager, managing director, officer or other employee of any 
intermediary  or  any  person  associated  with  securities  market  in  any  manner  in 
relation to the affairs of his business and may administer an oath accordingly and for 
that purpose may require any of those persons to appear before him personally. 
 
38[(7)  to call for information and record from any person including any bank or any other 
authority or board or corporation established or constituted by or under any Central, 
State or Provincial Act in respect of any transaction in securities which are under 
investigation; 
  
(8)  to make an application to the Judge of the designated court in Mumbai as notified by 
the Central Government for an order for the seizure of any books, registers, other 
documents and record, if in the course of investigation, the Investigating Authority 
has reasonable ground to believe that such books, registers, other documents and 
record of, or relating to, any intermediary or any person associated with securities 
market in any manner may be destroyed, mutilated, altered, falsified or secreted;  
 
(9)  to keep in his custody the books, registers, other documents and record seized under 
these regulations for such period not later than the conclusion of the investigation as 
he considers necessary and thereafter to return the same to the person, the company or 
the other body corporate, or, as the case may be, to the managing director or the 
manager or any other person from whose custody or power they were seized:  
Provided that the Investigating Authority may, before returning such books, registers, 
other documents and record as aforesaid, place identification marks on them or any 
part thereof; 
  
(10) save as otherwise provided in this regulation, every search or seizure made under this 
regulation shall  be  carried  out  in accordance  with  the  provisions of  the  Code  of 
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) relating to searches or seizures made under that 
                                                           
38 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022.

[Page 11]
11 
 
Code.] 
 
 
7. 39[  ]  
 
 
Duty to co-operate, etc. 
8. (1) It shall be the duty of every person in respect of whom an investigation has been 
ordered 40[under regulation 5]— 
 
 
(a)  to produce to the Investigating Authority or any person authorized by him such books, 
accounts and other documents and record in his custody or control and to furnish such 
statements and information as the Investigating Authority or the person so authorized 
by him may reasonably require for the purposes of the investigation; 
 
 
(b) to appear before the Investigating Authority personally when required to do so by him 
under regulation 6 41[ ] to answer any question which is put to him by the 
Investigating Authority in pursuance of the powers under the said regulations. 
 
 
                                                           
39 Omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022.  
Prior to the omission, the provision read as follows:  
“Power of the Investigating Authority to be exercised with prior approval 
7. The Investigating Authority may, after obtaining specific approval from the Chairman or Member also 
exercise all or any of the following powers, namely :— 
(a)  to call for information and record from any bank or any other authority or board or corporation established 
or constituted by or under any Central, State or Provincial Act in respect of any transaction in securities which 
are under investigation; 
(b)  to make an application to the Judicial Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction for an order for the 
seizure of any books, registers, other documents and record, if in the course of investigation, the Investigating 
Authority has reasonable ground to believe that such books, registers, other documents and record of, or 
relating to, any intermediary or any person associated with securities market in any manner may be destroyed, 
mutilated, altered, falsified or secreted; 
(c)  to keep in his custody the books, registers, other documents and record seized under these regulations for 
such period not later than the conclusion of the investigation as he considers necessary and thereafter to 
return the same to the person, the company or the other body corporate, or, as the case may be, to the 
managing director or the manager or any other person from whose custody or power they were seized: 
Provided that the Investigating Authority may, before returning such books, registers, other documents and 
record as aforesaid, place identification marks on them or any part thereof; 
(d)  save as otherwise provided in this regulation, every search or seizure made under this regulation shall  be  
carried  out  in accordance  with  the  provisions of  the  Code  of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) relating 
to searches or seizures made under that Code. ” 
40 Substituted for “ under regulation 7 ” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 
January 25, 2022.  
41 The words “or regulation 7” omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 
January 25, 2022.

[Page 12]
12 
 
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of 42[the Companies Act, 2013 (No. 18 of 2013)], it 
shall be the duty of every manager, managing director, officer and other employee of the 
company and every intermediary referred to in section 12 of the Act or every person 
associated with the securities market to preserve and to produce to the Investigating 
Authority or any person authorized by him in this behalf, all the books, registers, other 
documents and record of, or relating to, the company or, as the case may be, of or 
relating to, the intermediary or such person, which are in their custody or power. 
 
 
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-regulations (1) and (2), 
such person shall— 
 
 
(a)  allow the Investigating Authority 43[or any person authorized by him in this behalf] 
to have access to the premises occupied by such person at all reasonable times for the 
purpose of investigation; 
 
 
(b)  extend to the Investigating Authority 44[or any person authorized by him in this 
behalf] reasonable facilities for examining any books, accounts and other documents 
in his custody or control (whether kept manually or in computer  or  in  any  other  
form)  reasonably  required  for  the  purposes  of  the investigation; 
 
 
(c) 45[provide to such Investigating Authority or any person authorized by him in this 
behalf any such books, accounts and records which, in the opinion of the Investigating 
Authority, are relevant to the investigation or, as the case may be, allow the 
Investigating Authority or any person authorized by him in this behalf to take 
computer print-outs thereof.]  
 
 
Submission of report to the Board 
9. The Investigating Authority shall, on completion of investigation, after taking into 
account all relevant facts, submit a report to the appointing authority: 
 
 
Provided that the Investigating Authority may submit an interim report pending completion 
                                                           
42 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 1, 2019. 
Before the substitution the words read as "sections 235 to 241 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)" 
43 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022. 
44 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022. 
45 Substituted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022. Before the 
substitution the provision read as follows: 
“provide to such Investigating Authority any such books, accounts and records which, in the opinion of the 
Investigating Authority, are relevant to the investigation or, as the case may be, allow him to take out 
computer out-prints thereof”.

[Page 13]
13 
 
of investigations if he considers necessary in the interest of investors and the securities 
market or as directed by the appointing authority. 
 
 
Enforcement by the Board 
10. The Board may, after consideration of the report referred to in regulation 9, if satisfied 
that there is a violation of these regulations and after giving a reasonable opportunity of 
hearing to the persons concerned, issue such directions or take such action as mentioned in 
regulation 11 and regulation 12: 
 
 
Provided that the Board may, in the interest of investors and the securities market, pending 
the receipt of the report of the investigating authority referred to in regulation 9, issue 
directions under regulation 11: 
 
 
Provided further that the Board may, in the interest of investors and securities market, 
dispense with the opportunity of pre-decisional hearing by recording reasons in writing and 
shall give an opportunity of post-decisional hearing to the persons concerned as 
expeditiously as possible. 
 
 
11. (1) The Board may, without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-sections (1), 
(2), (2A) and (3) of section 11 and section 11B of the Act, by an order, for reasons to be 
recorded in writing, in the interests of investors and securities market, issue or take any of 
the  following  actions  or  directions,  either  pending  investigation  or  enquiry  or  on 
completion of such investigation or enquiry, namely:— 
 
 
(a)  suspend the trading of the security found to be or prima facie found to be involved in 
fraudulent and unfair trade practice in a recognized stock exchange; 
 
 
(b)  restrain  persons  from  accessing  the  securities  market  and  prohibit  any  person 
associated with securities market to buy, sell or deal in securities; 
 
(c)  suspend any office-bearer of any stock exchange or self-regulatory organization from 
holding such position; 
 
 
(d)  impound and retain the proceeds or securities in respect of any transaction which is in 
violation or prima facie in violation of these regulations; 
 
 
(e)  direct and intermediary or any person associated with the securities market in any 
manner not to dispose of or alienate an asset forming part of a fraudulent and unfair 
transaction; 
 
 
(f)  require the person concerned to call upon any of its officers, other employees or 
representatives to refrain from dealing in securities in any particular manner;

[Page 14]
14 
 
 
(g)  prohibit the person concerned from disposing of any of the securities acquired in 
contravention of these regulations; 
 
 
(h)  direct   the   person   concerned   to   dispose   of   any   such   securities   acquired   in 
contravention of these regulations, in such manner as the Board may deem fit, for 
restoring the status quo ante; 
 
46[(2) Any final order passed under sub- regulation (1) shall be put on the website of the 
Board.] 
 
 
47[Manner of service of summons and notices issued by the Board. 
11A. (1) A summons or notice issued by the Board under these regulations shall be served 
on the person through any of the following modes, namely— 
(a) by delivering or tendering it to that person or his duly authorised agent; or 
(b) by sending it to the person by fax or electronic mail or electronic instant 
messaging services along with electronic mail or by courier or speed post or 48[Speed 
Post with Registration]: 
Provided that the courier or speed post or 49[Speed Post with Registration] 
shall be sent  to the address of his place of residence or his last known place of 
residence or the place where he carried  on, or last carried on, business or personally 
works,  or last worked, for gain, with acknowledgment due:  
Provided further that a summons or notice sent by fax shall bear a note that 
the same is being sent by fax and in case the document contains annexure, the number 
of pages being sent shall also be mentioned: 
Provided further that a summons or notice sent through electronic mail or 
electronic instant messaging services along with electronic mail shall be digitally 
                                                           
46 Substituted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022. Before the 
substitution the provision read as follows: 
“The Board shall issue a press release in respect of any final order passed under sub- regulation (1) in at least 
two newspapers of which one shall have nationwide circulation and shall also put the order on the website of 
the Board”. 
47 Substituted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022.  
The provision was originally inserted vide the SEBI (Manner of Service of Summons and Notices issued by the 
Board) (Amendment) Regulations, 2007 w.e.f. April 23, 2007 and read as follows: 
“A summons or notice issued by the Board under these regulations may be served in the manner provided in 
regulation 22 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer 
and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002”. 
48 Substituted for the words “registered post” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substitution of 
Registered Post with Speed Post) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 05-12-2025. 
49 ibid.

[Page 15]
15 
 
signed by the competent authority and bouncing of the electronic mail shall not 
constitute valid service.  
 
(2) In case of failure to serve a summons or notice through any one of the modes provided 
under sub-regulation (1), the summons or notice may be affixed on the outer door or some 
other conspicuous part of the premises in which the person resides or is known to have last 
resided, or carried on business or personally works, or last worked, for gain and a written 
report thereof shall be prepared in the presence of two witnesses. 
 
(3) In case of failure to affix the summons or notice on the outer door as provided under 
sub-regulation (2), the summons or notice shall be published in at least two newspapers, 
one of which shall be in an English daily newspaper having nationwide circulation and 
another shall be in a newspaper having wide circulation published in the language of the 
region where that person was last known to have resided or carried on business or 
personally worked for gain.] 
 
 
Suspension or cancellation of registration 
12. (1) The Board may, without prejudice to 50[any action under the securities laws or 
directions or circulars issued thereunder], by an order, for reasons to be recorded in writing, 
in the interests of investors and securities market take the following action against an 
intermediary : 
(a) issue a warning or censure 
(b) suspend the registration of the intermediary; or 
(c) cancel of the registration of the intermediary 
 
Provided that no final order of suspension or cancellation of an intermediary for violation 
of  these  regulations  shall  be  passed  unless the  procedure  specified  in  the  regulations 
applicable  to  such  intermediary  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India   
51[(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008] is complied with. 
 
Repeal and savings 
13. (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair 
Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995 is hereby repealed. 
 
 
(2) Notwithstanding repeal of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995, 
any violation of regulations 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair 
                                                           
50 Substituted for the words “ the provisions contained in sub-sections (1), (2), (2A) and (3) of section 11 and 
section 11B of the Act ” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair 
Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022. 
51 Substituted for the words “ (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) 
Regulations, 2002 ” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair 
Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. January 25, 2022.

[Page 16]
16 
 
Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995 shall be investigated and 
proceeded against in accordance with the procedure laid down in these regulations. 
 
 
(3) Notwithstanding repeal of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995, 
any investigation pending, at the commencement of these regulations shall be continued 
and disposed of in accordance with the procedure laid down in these regulations.

[Page 17]
17 
 
Footnotes: 
1.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair 
Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 was published in the 
Gazette of India on July 17, 2003 vide No. S. O. 816(E). 
2.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair 
Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 was amended on - 
i.      April 23, 2007 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Manner of Service 
of Summons and Notices Issued by Board) (Amendment) Regulations, 2007 vide 
No. SEBI/LAD/DOP/2232/2007; 
ii.      December 11, 2012 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2012 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2012-13/25/5455; 
iii.  September 06, 2013 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2013 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2013-14/22/22670; 
iv.     December 31, 2018 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/56. 
v.    March 13, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2020/08. 
vi.    October 19, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2020/36. 
vii.   January 25, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/71. 
viii   July 1, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/187. 
ix.   December 5, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substitution of 
Registered Post with Speed Post) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide 
Notification No. F. No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/281.
