[Page 1]
Page 1 of 67 
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (SETTLEMENT 
PROCEEDINGS) REGULATIONS, 2018 
 
[Amended upto November 28, 2024] 
 
No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/ 2018/48 .-In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 15JB of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, Section 23JA of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 and Section 19-IA of the Depositories Act, 1996 read with Section 30 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, Section 31 of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 and Section 25 of the Depositories Act, 1996, the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regulations to provide for the terms of 
settlement and the procedure of  settlement and matters connected therewith or incidental 
thereto, namely:— 
 
 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
 
Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 
Proceedings) Regulations, 2018.  
 
(2) They shall come into force on the 1st day of January 2019. 
Definitions. 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
bear the meanings assigned to them below and their cognate expressions shall be construed 
accordingly, –    
(a) "Act" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b) “alleged default” means an alleged or probable contravention of any provision of the 
securities laws; 
(c) "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under the 
provisions of Section 3 of the Act;

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 67 
 
(d) "Panel of Whole Time Members" means the panel consisting of two or more Whole 
Time Members of the Board;  
(e) "securities laws" means the Act, the Securities Contract (Regulations) Act, 1956 (42 of 
1956), the Depositories Act,1996 (22 of 1996), the relevant provisions of any other law 
to the extent it is administered by the Board and the relevant rules and regulations made 
thereunder; 
(f) "specified proceedings" means the proceedings that may be initiated by the Board or 
have been initiated and are pending before the Board or any other forum, for the 
violation of securities laws, under Section 11, Section 11B, Section 11D, sub -Section 
(3) of Section 12 or Section 15 -I of the Act or Section 12A or Section 23 -I of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation)Act, 1956 or Section 19 or Section 19H of the 
Depositories Act, 1996, as the case may be; 
(g) "Tribunal" means the Securities Appellate Tribunal established under Section 15K of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  
 
(2) Words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act, the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 the Depositories Act, 1996 the Companies Act, 
2013 or any of the rules or regulations made thereunder, shall have the same meanings 
respectively assigned to them in those Acts, rules or regulations or any statutory m odification 
or re-enactment thereto.  
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER II 
 
APPLICATION FOR SETTLEMENT 
 
Application. 
3. (1) A person against whom any specified proceedings have been initiated and are pending 
or may be initiated, may make an application to the Board in the Form  specified in Part-A of 
the Schedule-I.

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 67 
 
(2) The application made under sub -regulation (1) shall be accompanied by a non -refundable 
application fee as specified in Part -B of Schedule I and the undertakings and waivers as 
specified in Part-C of Schedule-I: 
 Provided that the rejection or withdrawal of the application shall not affect the 
continued validity of the undertakings and waivers given in respect of limitation or laches in 
respect of the initiation or continuation or restoration of any legal proceedi ng and the waivers 
given under sub-paras (d), (e), (f) and (g) of para 12 of the undertaking and waivers as provided 
in Part-C of the Schedule -I and subject to such undertakings and waivers, the Board or the 
applicant, shall be free to initiate or pursue s uch proceedings as may be appropriate in 
accordance with law. 
 
(3) The applicant shall make full and true disclosures in the application in respect of the alleged 
default(s): 
Provided that the facts established against the applicant or admitted in any ongo ing or 
concluded proceedings in India or outside India, with respect to the same cause of action, under 
any law, shall be deemed to be admitted by the applicant in respect of the proceedings proposed 
to be settled.  
 
(4) The applicant shall make one applic ation for settlement of all the proceedings that have 
been initiated or may be initiated in respect of the same cause of action. 
 
(5) An application that is not complete in all respects or does not conform to the requirements 
of these regulations shall be returned to the applicant. 
 
(6) The applicant whose application has been returned under sub - regulation (5) may, within 
fifteen days from the date of communication from the Board, submit the complete and revised 
application that conforms to the requirements of these regulations: 
Provided that no further opportunity shall be given to the applicant to make an 
application in respect of the alleged default at the same stage of the proceedings, as indicated 
in Table I in Schedule-II. 
 
(7) Where the applicant is an association or a firm or a body corporate or a limited liability 
partnership, the application and undertakings and waivers shall be executed by the person in 
charge of, and responsible for the conduct of the business of such firm or association or body

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 67 
 
corporate and the same shall bind the firm or association, the body corporate and any officer 
who is in default. 
Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-regulation, the expression 'officer who is in default' 
shall have the same meaning as provided in sub-Section (60) of Section 2 of the Companies 
Act, 2013. 
 
(8) An application for settlement of defaults related to disclosures, shall to the extent possible, 
be made after making the required disclosure. 
 
Limitation. 
4. (1) An application in respect of any specified proceeding pending before the Board shall not 
be considered if it is made after sixty days from the date of service of the notice to show cause 
or supplementary notice(s) to show cause, whichever is later. 
 
(2) 1[***] 
(3) The provisions of this regulation shall not apply in the case of proceedings pending before 
the Tribunal or any court. 
 
 
CHAPTER III 
 
SCOPE OF SETTLEMENT  
 
Scope of settlement proceedings. 
5. (1) No application for settlement of any specified proceedings shall be considered, if:  
(a) an earlier application with regard to the same alleged default had been rejected; 
                                                           
1 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022. Prior to its omission, the provision read as below: 
“(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), the Board may consider the application, if satisfied 
that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within the specified period and it is accompanied with non -
refundable fees as specified in Part-B of the Schedule-I: 
Provided that, where the application is filed a fter sixty calendar days from the expiry of the period specified in 
sub-regulation (1), the settlement amount determined in accordance with Schedule -II of these regulations shall 
be increased by twenty-five percent: 
Provided further that, no such delayed application shall be considered if the application is filed after one hundred 
and twenty calendar days from the expiry of the period specified in sub -regulation (1) or after the first hearing, 
whichever is earlier.”

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 67 
 
 
(b) the audit or investigation or inspection or inquiry, if any, in respect of any cause of 
action, is not complete, except in case of applications involving confidentiality; or 
 
(c) monies due under an order issued under securities laws are liable for recovery under 
securities laws. 
 
(2) The Board may not settle any specified proceeding, if it is of the opinion that the alleged 
default, - 
i. has market wide impact, 2[or] 
ii. caused losses to a large number of investors, or 
iii. affected the integrity of the market. 
 
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, for settling any specified 
proceeding the Board may inter alia take into account the following factors, - 
 
(a) whether the applicant has refunded or disgorged the monies due, to the satisfaction of 
the Board;  
 
(b) whether the applicant has provided an exit or purchase option to investors in compliance 
with securities laws, to the satisfaction of the Board;  
 
(c) whether the applicant is in compliance with securities laws or any order or direction 
passed under securities laws, to the satisfaction of the Board; 
 
(d) any other factor as may be deemed appropriate by the Board. 
 
(4) Without prejudice to sub -regulations (1) and (3), the Board may not settle the specified 
proceedings where the applicant is a wilful defaulter, a fug itive economic offender or has 
defaulted in payment of any fees due or penalty imposed under securities laws. 
 
                                                           
2 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022.

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 67 
 
(5) Nothing contained in these regulations shall be construed to restrict the right of the Panel 
of Whole Time Members to consider or reject any application in respect of any specified 
proceeding without examination by the Internal Committee or the High Powered Advisory 
Committee. 
 
Rejection of application. 
6. (1) An application may 3[also] at any time be rejected on the following grounds: 
(a) Where the applicant refuses to receive or respond to the communications sent by the 
Board; 
(b) Where the applicant does not submit or delays the submission of information, 
document, 4[Revised Settlement Terms,] etc., as called for by the Board; 
(c) Where the applicant w ho is required to appear, does not appear before the Internal 
Committee on more than one occasion; 
(d) Where the applicant violates in any manner the undertaking and waivers as provided in 
Part-C of the Schedule-I; 
(e) Where the applicant does not remit the settlement amount within the period specified 
in clause (a) of sub -regulation (2) of regulation 15 and/or does not abide by the 
undertaking and waivers; 
(f) Where the applicant fails to comply with the condition precedent(s) for settlement 
within the time as required by the Internal Committee. 
 
(2) The rejection under sub-regulation (1) shall be communicated to the applicant: 
Provided that the applicant shall continue to be bound by the waivers given in respect of 
limitation or laches in respect of the initiat ion or continuation or restoration of any legal 
proceeding and the waivers given under sub -paras (d), (e), (f) and (g) of para 12 of the 
undertaking and waivers as provided in Part-C of the Schedule-I. 
 
Withdrawal of application. 
7. (1) An application may be withdrawn at any time prior to the communication of the decision 
of the Panel of Whole Time Members under regulation 15. 
                                                           
3 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022. 
4 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022.

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 67 
 
 
(2) An applicant who withdraws an application under sub-regulation (1) shall not be permitted 
to make another application in respect of the same default: 
 
 Provided that, as may be recommended by the High Powered Advisory Committee, 
such an application may be considered subject to an increase of atleast fifty percent over the 
settlement amount determined in accordance with Schedule-II of these Regulations. 
 
Effect of pending application on specified proceedings. 
8. (1) The filing of an application for settlement of any specified proceedings shall not affect 
the continuance of the proceedings save that the passing of the final order shall be kept in 
abeyance till the application is disposed of. 
 
(2) Where the application is filed in case of proceedings that may be initiated against the 
applicant, such proceedings shall not be initiated till the application is rejected or withdrawn: 
Provided that, the filing of an application shall not prohibit the initiation of any 
proceedings, in so far as may be deemed necessary for the purpose of issuance of interim civil 
and administrative directions to protect the interests of investors and to mai ntain the integrity 
of the securities markets. 
 
Explanation. - Where any proceeding is pending or to be initiated against several persons but 
the settlement application is filed only by one or more persons, but not all, the filing of such an 
application shall not affect the initiation, continuation and disposal of the proceedings against 
the person who has not filed the application for settlement and any adverse observations made 
in such proceedings against the applicant shall qua the applicant be subject t o the outcome of 
the settlement application filed by such applicant. 
 
 
CHAPTER IV 
 
TERMS OF SETTLEMENT 
 
Settlement terms.

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 67 
 
9. (1) The settlement terms may include a settlement amount and/or non -monetary terms, in 
accordance with the guidelines specified in Schedule-II. 
 
(2) The non-monetary terms may include the following: 
(a) Suspension or cessation of business activities for a specified period; 
(b) Exit from Management; 
(c) Disgorgement on account of the action or inaction of the applicant;  
(d) Refraining from acting as a partner or officer or director of an intermediary or as an 
officer or director of a company that has a class of securities regulated by the Board, 
for specified periods; 
(e) Cancel securities and reduce holdings where the securities are issued fraudulently, 
including bonus shares received on such securities, if any, and reimburse any dividends 
received, etc.; 
(f) Lock-in of securities; 
(g) Implementation of enhanced policies and procedures to prevent future securities laws 
violations as well as agreeing to appoint or engage an independent consultant to review 
internal policies, processes and procedures; 
(h) Provide enhanced training and education to employees of intermediaries and securities 
market infrastructure institutions; 
(i) Submit to enhanced internal audit and reporting requirements 5[;] 
(j) Restraining from accessing the securities market and/or prohibiting from buying, 
selling or otherwise dealing in securities, directly or indirectly and associating with the 
securities market in any manner for a specific period. 
 
(3) The settlement amount, excluding the legal costs and disgorged amount, shall be credited 
to the Consolidated Fund of India. 
 
(4) The application fee referred to in sub -regulation (2) of regulation 3 and the legal costs, if 
any, forming part of the set tlement amount shall be credited to the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India General Fund. 
 
                                                           
5 Substituted for the symbol ‘.’ by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022.

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 67 
 
Explanation. – Legal costs shall include liquidated costs, as may be determined by the Board, 
in respect of costs for obtaining appropriate orders from the Tribun al or Court under sub -
regulation (2) of regulation 24 6[and include other expenses incurred by the Board in any other 
proceeding before any Court or Tribunal in respect of such application]. 
 
(5) The amount of profits made or losses avoided by the applican t that may be disgorged as 
part of the settlement terms, shall be credited to the Investor Protection and Education Fund. 
 
Factors to be considered to arrive at the settlement terms. 
10. While arriving at the settlement terms, the factors indicated in Schedule -II may be 
considered, including but not limited, to the following:  
(a) conduct of the applicant during the specified proceeding, investigation, inspection or 
audit; 
(b) the role played by the applicant in case the alleged default is committed by a group of 
persons; 
(c) nature, gravity and impact of alleged defaults;  
(d) whether any other proceeding against the applicant for non -compliance of securities 
laws is pending or concluded; 
(e) the extent of harm and/or loss to the investors’ and/or gains made by the applicant;  
(f) processes that have been introduced since the alleged default to minimize future 
defaults or lapses;  
(g) compliance schedule proposed by the applicant; 
(h) economic benefits accruing to any pe rson from the non -compliance or delayed 
compliance;  
(i) conditions which are necessary to deter future non-compliance by the same or another 
person; 
(j) satisfaction of claim of investors regarding payment of money due to them or delivery 
of securities to them;  
(k) any other enforcement action that has been taken against the applicant for the same 
violation;  
(l) any other factors necessary in the facts and circumstances of the case.  
                                                           
6 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022.

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 67 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER V 
 
COMMITTEES 
 
High Powered Advisory Committee. 
11. (1) The Board shall constitute a High Powered Advisory Committee for consideration and 
recommendation of the terms of settlement.  
 
(2) The High Powered Advisory Committee shall consist of a Judicial member who has been 
the Judge of the Supreme Court or a High Court and three external experts having expertise in 
securities market or in matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. 
 
(3) The term of the members of the High Powered Advisory Committee shall be three years 
which may be extended for a further period of two years. 
 
(4) The quorum for a meeting of the High Powered Advisory Committee shall be of three 
members. 
Explanation. - Meeting includes meeting through audio-video electronic means or through the 
medium of electronic video linkage. 
 
(5) The High Powered Advisory Committee shall conduct its meetings in the manner specified 
by the Board in this regard: 
Provided that:  
(i) where any member of the High Powered Advisory Committee seeks recusal, the 
remaining two or more members  may submit their recomm endation on the terms of 
settlement; 
(ii) where no consensus or majority may be reached, the recommendation made by the 
Judicial member shall be considered to be the recommendation of the High Powered 
Advisory Committee and in case of recusal of the Judicial me mber, the 
recommendations of the remaining two or more members shall be submitted for 
consideration to the Panel of Whole Time Members; and

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 67 
 
(iii) where all or all but one of the members of the High Powered Advisory Committee 
recuse themselves in respect of an application, the Board may constitute another High 
Powered Advisory Committee. 
 
Internal committee(s). 
12. (1) Internal Committee(s) shall be constituted by the Board. 
 
(2) The Internal Committee(s) shall comprise of an officer of the Board not below the r ank of 
Chief General Manager and such other officers as may be specified by the Board. 
 
 
CHAPTER VI 
 
PROCEDURE OF SETTLEMENT 
 
Proceedings before the Internal Committee. 
13. (1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, an application shall be referred to an 
Internal Committee to examine whether the proceedings may be settled and if so to determine 
the settlement terms in accordance with these regulations. 
 
(2) The Internal Committee may:  
(a) call for relevant information, documents, etc., pertaini ng to the alleged default(s) in 
possession of the applicant or obtainable by the applicant; 
Explanation. – Nothing in these regulations shall confer a right upon the applicant to 
seek information from the Board or require the Board to seek information from  any 
other person for the purpose of relying upon it in the settlement proceedings or request 
the Board to permit it to present information not already disclosed in the application, 
which the applicant was aware of at the time of making the application or which 
information upon diligent enquiry being made could have become known to the 
applicant.  
  
(b) call for the personal appearance of the applicant before it: 
  Provided that a duly authorized representative of the applicant may represent on 
behalf of the applicant:

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 67 
 
Explanation. - Personal appearance under this clause includes appearance through 
audio-video electronic means or through the medium of electronic video linkage as 
may be permitted by the Internal Committee.  
 
7[(ba) require the applicant to comply with certain condition precedent(s) within a specified 
time period for consideration of the application for settlement.] 
 
(c) permit the applicant to submit revised settlement terms within a period not exceeding 
8[fifteen] working days from the date of the Internal Committee meeting 9[.] 
10[***] 
 
(3) The proposed settlement terms, if any, shall be placed before the High Powered Advisory 
Committee. 
 
 
 
Proceedings before the High Powered Advisory Committee. 
14. (1) The High Powered Advisory Committee shall consider the proposed settlement terms 
placed before it along with the following: 
(a) the application, undertaking and waivers of the applicant; 
(b) factors specified in regulation 10; 
(c) settlement terms or revised settlement terms proposed by the applicant; 
(d) any other relevant material available on record.  
 
(2) The High Powered Advisory Committee may seek revision of the settlement terms and refer 
the application back to the Internal Committee. 
 
                                                           
7 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022.  
8 Substituted for the word ‘ten’ by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022. 
9 Substituted for the symbol ‘:’ by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022. 
10 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedin gs) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022.  Prior to its omission, the provision read as below: 
“Provided that the revised settlement terms received after ten working days, but within twenty working days may 
be considered subject to an increase of ten percent over the recommended settlement amount.”

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 67 
 
(3) The recommendations of the High Powered Advisory Committee shall be placed before the 
Panel of Whole Time Members.  
 
Action on the recommendation of High Powered Advisory Committee. 
15. (1) The Panel of Whole Time Members shall consider the recommendations of the High 
Powered Advisory Committee and may accept or reject the same: 
Provided that where the recommendations of the High Powered Advisory Committee to settle 
the specified proceedings are rejected, the panel of Whole Time Members shall record reasons 
for rejection of the recommendations: 
Provided further that where the recommendation of the High Powered Advisory Committee to 
settle the specified proceedings are rejected, such decision of the panel of Whole Time 
Members shall be communicated to the applicant. 
 
(2) Where the Panel of Whole Time Members accepts the recommendati on of the High 
Powered Advisory Committee to settle the specified proceedings, the applicant shall be issued 
a notice of demand within seven working days of the decision of the panel and the applicant 
shall, - 
(a) remit the settlement amount forming part o f the settlement terms, not later than 
11[thirty] calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice of demand 12[***]: 
Explanation. – Remittance of settlement amount shall be done 13[***] by way of 
14[payment through the dedicated payment gateway provided for the purpose]. 
 
15[***] 
                                                           
11 Substituted for the word “fifteen” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020. 
12 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022.  Prior to its omission, the provision read as below: 
“, which may be extended by the Panel of Whole Time Members for reasons t o be recorded, by sixty calendar 
days, only after receipt of an application seeking extension of time within thirty days from the date of receipt of 
notice of demand” 
13 The words “by way of a demand draft drawn in favour of 'Securities and Exchange Board o f India' payable at 
Mumbai or” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020. 
14 Substituted for the words “direct credit in the specified bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS o r any other 
authorized electronic mode of payment” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020.  
15 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Am endment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022.  Prior to its omission, the provision read as below:  
“Provided that, where the settlement amount is remitted after thirty calendar days from the date of receipt of the 
notice of demand and on or before the ni netieth day from such receipt, the settlement amount payable by the

[Page 14]
Page 14 of 67 
 
 
Provided 16[***] that, in no case shall such remittance be accepted after the 
17[thirtieth] calendar day from the date of the receipt of the notice of demand. 
 
(b) fulfil/undertake in writing to abide by, the other settlement terms, if any, within 
the time provided to the applicant. 
 
(3) Where the Panel of Whole Time Members does not accept the recommendation of the High 
Powered Advisory Committee to settle the specified proceedings on the settlement terms 
recommended by it, the panel may return the application for re -examination of the settlement 
terms and thereafter the procedure as applicable in the case of an original application shall be 
followed by the Internal Committee and the High Powered Advisory Committee. 
 
CHAPTER VII 
 
SUMMARY SETTLEMENT PROCEDURE 
 
Summary settlement procedure 
16. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter VI, before initiating any specified 
proceeding, the Board may issue a notice of summary settlement in the format as specified in 
Part-A of Schedule-III, calling upon the noticee to file a settlement application under Chapter-
II and submit the settlement amount and/or furnish an undertaking in respect of other non -
monetary terms or comply with other non-monetary terms, as may be specified in the summary 
settlement notice in respect of the specified proceedin g(s) to be initiated for the following 
defaults,- 
i. Delayed disclosures, including filing of returns, report, document, etc.; 
ii. Non-disclosure in relation to companies exclusively listed on regional stock 
exchanges which have exited; 
iii. Disclosures not made in the specified formats; 
                                                           
applicant shall be increased by the levy of simple interest at the rate of six per cent per annum from the date of 
receipt of the notice of demand till the date of payment of the settlement amount:” 
16 The word “further” was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022.  
17 Substituted for the word “ninetieth” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sett lement Proceedings) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020.

[Page 15]
Page 15 of 67 
 
iv. Delayed compliance of any of the requirements of law or directions issued by the 
Board; 
v. Such other defaults as may be determined by the Board. 
 
 Provided that, the specified proceeding(s) shall not be settled under this Chapter, if in 
the opinion of the Board, the applicant has failed to make a full and true disclosure of facts or 
failed to co-operate in the required manner. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the notice of settlement, the Board  shall have the 
power to modify the enforcement action to be brought against the noticee and the notice of 
settlement shall not confer any right upon the noticee to seek settlement or avoid any 
enforcement action. 
 
(3) The noticee  may, within thirty calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice of 
settlement, - 
(a) file a settlement application in the Form specified in Part -A of Schedule-I along with 
non-refundable application fee as specified in Part-B and the undertakings and waivers as 
specified in Part-C of Schedule-I;  
 
(b) remit the settlement amount as specified in the notice of settlement;  
 
(c) comply or undertake to comply with other non -monetary terms as specified in the 
notice of settlement, as the case may be; and  
 
(d) seek rectification of the calculation of the settlement amount, as communicated in the 
notice of settlement, at the time of filing the settlement application and in all such cases, 
the decision of the Board shall be final and remittance shall be done within thirty calendar 
days from the date of receipt of the decision of the Board: 
 
 Provided that, the Board may for reasons to be recorded, grant extension of time not 
exceeding a further period of fifteen calendar days for filing the settlement app lication, 
remittance of the settlement amount and/or furnishing an undertaking in respect of any of the 
non-monetary terms or compliance with any of the non-monetary terms specified in the notice 
of settlement.

[Page 16]
Page 16 of 67 
 
 
(4) Upon being satisfied with the remittance  of settlement amount and undertaking furnished 
in respect of the non-monetary terms or compliance with non-monetary terms, if any as detailed 
in the settlement notice, the Board shall pass an order of settlement under regulation 23. 
 
17. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, where a noticee does not file a 
settlement application under this Chapter or remit the settlement amount and/or comply with 
other non -monetary terms to the satisfaction of the Board or withdraws the settlement 
application at any time prior to the communication of the decision of the Board, the specified 
proceedings may be initiated, and such a noticee shall only be permitted to file a settlement 
application in respect of the proceedings pending before the Court or Tribunal, after conclusion 
of proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer or the Board, as the case may be. 
 
18[***] 
CHAPTER IX 
 
SETTLEMENT WITH CONFIDENTIALITY  
 
Settlement with confidentiality. 
19. (1) An applicant seeking the benefit of confidentiality in return for admitting for the limited 
purpose of settlement of specified proceedings to be initiated and agreeing to provide 
substantial assistance in the investigation, inspection, inquiry or aud it, to be initiated or 
                                                           
18 Chapter VIII omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020. Before the omission, the Chapter VIII read a s under: 
“CHAPTER VIII 
SETTLEMENT NOTICE 
Settlement notice. 
18. (1) A notice of settlement in the format as specified in Part -B of Schedule-III, indicating the substance of the 
probable charges and enforcement actions, may, except in cases covered under Chapter VII, be issued by the 
Board prior to the issuance of the notice to show cause so as to afford the noticee an opportunity to file a settlement 
application under Chapter-II, within fifteen calendar days from the date of receipt of the settlement notice.  
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the settlement not ice, the Board shall have the right to modify the 
nature of the enforcement action to be initiated against the noticee and the charges stated in the notice shall not 
confer any right to seek settlement on the said basis or avoid any enforcement action due to modified charges. 
 
(3) Where a noticee does not file the settlement application under this Chapter or withdraws the settlement 
application at any time prior to the communication of the decision of the Panel of Whole Time Members under 
regulation 15, the  specified proceedings may be initiated and such a noticee shall only be permitted to file a 
settlement application in respect of the proceedings pending before a Court or tribunal, after conclusion of the 
proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer or the Board, as the case may be.”

[Page 17]
Page 17 of 67 
 
ongoing, against any other person in respect of a violation of securities laws, shall fulfil the 
conditions of this Chapter, including –  
 
(a) cease to participate in the violation of securities laws from the time of the 
disclosure of information, unless otherwise directed by the Board;  
(b) provide and continue to provide complete and true disclosure of information, 
documents and evidence, which is in his possession or he is able to obtain, to 
the satisfaction of the Board in respect of the alleged contravention of the 
provisions of securities laws;  
(c) co-operate fully, continuously and expeditiously throughout the investigation, 
inspection, inquiry or audit and related proceedings before the Board; and  
(d) not conceal, destroy, manipulate or remo ve the relevant documents in any 
manner that may contribute to the establishment of the alleged violation. 
 
Explanation. – Violation of securities laws in this Chapter refers to defaults other than those of 
disclosure and reporting requirements detailed in Schedule II. 
 
Provided that an application made under this chapter shall be made only in cases prior to or 
pending investigation, inspection, inquiry or audit. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, where an applicant fails to comply 
with the conditions mentioned in this regulation, the Board may rely upon the information and 
evidence submitted by the applicant in any proceedings 
 
(3) Without prejudice to sub -regulations (1) and (2), the Board may subject the applicant to 
further restrictions or conditions, as deemed fit, after considering the facts and circumstances 
of the case.  
 
(4) For the purpose of seeking confidentiality, the applicant or its authorized representative 
may make an application containing all the relevant disclosure s pertaining to the information 
as specified in Schedule -IV for furnishing the information and evidence relating to the 
commission of any violation of securities laws.

[Page 18]
Page 18 of 67 
 
(5) Upon being satisfied the Board may assure the benefit of confidentiality and shall thereupon 
mark the status of the application depending upon its priority and convey the same to the 
applicant in writing.  
 
(6) The Board may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, at any stage, reject the application if 
the information, documents or evidence is found to be incomplete or false to the knowledge of 
the applicant.  
 
(7) The rejection of the application for confidentiality shall be communicated to the applicant. 
 
Procedure.  
20. (1) The provisions of Chapters IV to VI of these regulations may be applied mutatis 
mutandis to a settlement application filed under this Chapter and a settlement order passed 
accordingly. 
 
(2) The information, documents and evidence provided by the applicant under this chapter shall 
be submitted in the manner specified by the Board. 
 
Confidentiality and assurance.  
21. For the purposes of providing the applicant with interim confidentiality and assurance from 
being proceeded with, the Board may not i nitiate regulatory measures when the Board has a 
reasonable belief that the information provided to it relates to a possible securities law violation 
that has occurred, is ongoing or about to occur.  
 
Confidentiality.  
22. Notwithstanding anything containe d in Chapter X, the following shall be treated as 
confidential, - 
(a) the identity of the applicant seeking confidentiality; and 
(b) the information, documents and evidence furnished by the applicant under this 
Chapter: 
 
Provided that, the identity of the applicant or such information or documents or evidence may 
not be treated as confidential if, — 
(i) the disclosure is required by law;

[Page 19]
Page 19 of 67 
 
(ii) the applicant has agreed to such disclosure in writing; or 
(iii) there has been a public disclosure by the applicant. 
 
 
CHAPTER X 
 
SETTLEMENT ORDERS 
 
Settlement of proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer and the Board. 
23. (1) 19[The Whole Time Member, Adjudicating Officer or the competent officer of the 
Board before whom the proceedings are pending, shall dispose of the respective 
proceedings, by an appropriate order, on the basis of the approved settlement terms.] 
 
(2) 20[***]  
 
21[(2A) In case of specified proceedings which may be initiated or are proposed to be initiated, 
the Panel of Whole Time Members shall dispose of such proceedings on the basis of the 
approved settlement terms.] 
  
(3) The settlement order passed under these regulations shall, contain the details of the alleged 
default(s), relevant provisions of the securities laws, brief facts and circumst ances relevant to 
the alleged default, the admissions made by the applicant, if any and the settlement terms. 
 
Settlement of the proceedings pending before the Tribunal or any court. 
                                                           
19 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2023 w.e.f. 17-01-2023. Prior to its substitution, the provision read as below: 
“(1) The Adjudicating Officer shall by an appropriate order dispose of the proceeding pending before him on the 
basis of the approved settlement terms. 
Explanation. -In case of concurrent proceedings, a comprehensive order may be passed by the Panel of Whole 
Time Members and thereafter the c oncerned Adjudicating officer may pass an order, disposing of the relevant 
proceedings before him, in view of the settlement.” 
20 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendme nt) Regulations, 
2023, w.e.f. 17-01-2023.  Prior to its omission, the provision read as below: 
“The Panel of the Whole Time Members shall by an appropriate order dispose of proceedings initiated or 
proposed to be initiated other than the proceedings referred to in sub -regulation (1).” 
21 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, deemed to have come into force from 17-01-2023.

[Page 20]
Page 20 of 67 
 
24. (1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the provisions with regard to settlement 
of specified proceedings shall mutatis mutandis apply to an application for settlement of any 
proceeding pending before the Tribunal or any court. 
 
(2) The proposal of settlement along with the settlement terms or rejection thereof  shall be 
placed before such Tribunal or court for appropriate orders. 
 
Service and publication of settlement order. 
25. Settlement orders shall be served on the applicant and shall also be published on the website 
of the Board: 
Provided that settlement orders in matters relating to the confidentiality shall not, 
directly or indirectly, disclose the identity of the applicant, but shall indicate the provisions of 
securities laws which the applicant is alleged to have violated. 
 
Settlement Schemes. 
26. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, the Board may specify 22[***] a 
settlement scheme for any class of persons involved in respect of any similar specified defaults. 
 
Explanation. - A settlement order issued under a Settlement scheme shall be deemed to be a 
settlement order under these regulations. 
 
Effect of settlement order on third party rights or other proceedings. 
27. (1) A settlement order under these regulations shall not be admissible as evidence in any 
other proceeding relating to an alleged default not covered under the settlement order nor affect 
the right of third parties arising out of the alleged default. 
 
(2) Where any applicant who obtains a settlement order is also noticee along with any other 
person in any civil and administrative proceeding, the Adjudicating Officer or the Board while 
disposing proceedings against such other person may make necessary observations in respect 
of the applicant in so far as is necessary to prove the act of another: 
                                                           
22 The words “the procedure and terms of settlement of specified proceedings under” were omitted by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 14-01-
2022.

[Page 21]
Page 21 of 67 
 
Provided that, unless the settlement order is revoked, such observations shall qua the applicant 
be subject to the settlement order obtained by the applicant. 
 
(3) Where any person has obtained a settlement order, which contains observations in respect 
of any other person for the commi ssion of an alleged default, such an order shall not in itself 
be admissible as evidence against such other person. 
 
Revocation of the settlement order. 
28. (1) If the applicant fails to comply with the settlement order or at any time after the 
settlement order is passed, it comes to the notice of the Board that the applicant has not made 
full and true disclosure or has violated the undertakings or waivers, settlement order shall stand 
revoked and withdrawn and the Board shall restore or initiate the proceedings, with respect to 
which the settlement order was passed. 
 
(2) Whenever any settlement order is revoked, no amount paid under these regulations shall be 
refunded. 
  
CHAPTER XI 
 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
Confidentiality of information. 
29. (1) All information submitted and discussions held in pursuance of the settlement 
proceedings under these regulations shall be deemed to have been received or made in a 
fiduciary capacity and the same may not be released to the public, if the same prejudices the 
Board and/or the applicant. 
 
(2) Where an application is rejected or withdrawn, the applicant and the Board shall not rely 
upon or introduce as evidence before any court or Tribunal, any proposals made or information 
submitted or representation made by the applicant under these regulations: 
 Provided that this sub -regulation shall not apply where the settlement order is revoked or 
withdrawn under these regulations.

[Page 22]
Page 22 of 67 
 
Explanation. – When any fact is discovered in consequence of information received from a 
person in pursuance of an application, so much of such information, whether it amounts to an 
admission or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved. 
  
Power to remove difficulties. 
30. In order to remove any difficulty in the interpretation  or application or implementation of 
the provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue clarifications and 
specify procedures through circulars or guidelines. 
 
Irregularity in procedure  
31. No settlement order or rejection of a settlement application shall be 23[invalidated on ground 
of any defect in procedure or determination of the settlement terms] or on account of any 
vacancy in or any defect in the constitution of any committee under Chapter V: 
Provided that, nothing in these regulations shall prohibit the Board from revoking the 
settlement order where the applicant fails to pay any difference due to any discrepancy in 
24[arriving at the settlement terms]: 
Provided further that, the applicant shall continue to be bound by the waivers given in respect 
of limitation or laches in respect of initiating or continuing or restoring of any legal proceeding 
and the waivers given in sub-paras (d), (e) (f) and (g) of para 12 of the undertaking and waivers 
as provided in Part-C of the Schedule-I. 
25[Explanation. – For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that the power to seek the difference 
under this regulation shall include and always be deemed to have included the profits gained 
or losses avoided out of th e violations for which the specified proceedings also have been 
initiated.] 
 
Relevance of these regulations in specified proceedings 
32. Schedule-II of these regulations shall be relevant but not bind the Board or an Adjudicating 
Officer in any specified proceeding and the Board or the Adjudicating Officer may apply them 
to the extent possible. 
                                                           
23 Substituted for the words “void on gr ound of any defect in procedure or calculation of the settlement amount” 
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 
14-01-2022.  
24 Substituted for the words “calculation of the settlement amount” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 14 -01-2022.  
25 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022.

[Page 23]
Page 23 of 67 
 
 
Procedure for composition. 
33. The provisions of Chapters IV to VI and Schedule-II may be applied mutatis mutandis for 
26[determining the terms while processing] a compounding application. 
 
Repeal and savings. 
34. (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, Securities and Exch ange Board 
of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 shall stand 
repealed. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding any such repeal:  
 
(a) Notice of settlement issued under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Settlement of Adminis trative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 shall be 
deemed to have been filed in accordance with these regulations and shall be dealt with 
in accordance with the provisions of these regulations; 
 
(b) All applications filed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 
of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 and pending with the 
Board shall be deemed to have been filed in accordance with these regulations and shall 
be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of these regulations; 
 
(c) All settlement orders passed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 shall be 
deemed to have been passed under these regulations;  
 
(d) The Internal Committee(s) and the High Powered Advisory Committee constituted 
by the Board in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014, shall be 
deemed to have been constituted under these regulations; 
 
                                                           
26 Substituted for the words “arriving at a proposal pursuant to” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 14 -01-2022.

[Page 24]
Page 24 of 67 
 
(e) The proposals of the Internal Committees and the recommendations of the High 
Powered Advisory Committee in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 201 4 and 
any action taken by the Board on the basis of these recommendations shall be deemed 
to have been made under these regulations.  
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapters VI to Chapter VIII, with respect to 
specified proceedings pending as on the date of commencement of this Chapter, the Board may 
issue a notice of summary settlement or settlement under Chapter VII or Chapter VIII, as the 
case may be, in respect of such proceedings and in such cases the procedure specified in 
Chapter VII or Chapter VIII shall apply mutatis mutandis, as the case may be: 
 
Explanation. -For the purposes of this sub-regulation, it is clarified that a specified proceeding 
is not deemed to be initiated and pending, unless the  Board has communicated the matter to 
the authority who shall conduct such proceedings. 
 
27[(4) Notwithstanding the omission of Chapter VIII, a Settlement Notice issued under 
regulation 18, shall be dealt with as if the Chapter VIII is still force and continue to be dealt 
with accordingly.] 
 
 
SCHEDULE-I  
(See regulation 3) 
 
Part-A 
 
FORM 
Application for settlement  
(To be filed only after conclusion of investigation, inspection, inquiry or audit, as the 
case may be) 
 
                                                           
27 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlem ent Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020.

[Page 25]
Page 25 of 67 
 
(For Office use only) 
Date of receipt of the application: 
Application Registration Number: 
 
(Instructions: All particulars, including submission regarding details of loss caused to 
investors, profit made and proposed settlement amount must be filled, else application shall 
be returned. Put ‘NA’ only where NOT APPLICABLE.) 
 
 
Before the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
In the matter of ………………………….. 
1. Name/Trade name of the applicant/co-applicants: 
(a) Registration no., if applicable :  
(b) Date of Registration, if applicable : 
(c) PAN/DIN/CIN number, as available:  
(d) Paid-up capital of applicant: 
  
2. If stock broker, name of the stock exchange: 
3. If sub-broker/authorised person, name of stock broker with whom affiliated and name 
of the stock exchange: 
4. Name of the segment (Cash/derivative etc.): 
5. Form of organization: corporate body/ sole proprietorship / partnership / LLP/ financial 
institution (if listed co., details of listing): 
6. Names of promoters/directors/proprietors/partners: 
7. Key management personnel(s): 
8. Address/correspondence address, contact no./fax no. and email (any changes in 
aforesaid details shall be communicated to the Board promptly): 
9. Name and contact details (including e-mail) of the contact person (s): 
10. Other registration(s) with the Board, if applicable: 
(a) Trade name : 
(b) Registration type : 
(c) Registration no. : 
  11. Case(s) pending with the Board/SAT/Court (Pl. specify):

[Page 26]
Page 26 of 67 
 
  12. Case(s) pending under 11B/Adjudication/Enquiry/others (pl. specify): 
  13. Stage at which pending 28[, including details of hearing opportunity given by the Board 
or AO, if any]: 
  14.  Interim order(s) in the pending proceedings (gist of the orders passed), if any: 
  15.  Other actions pending with/concluded by the Board, if any (with their details): 
(a) Against the applicant  : 
(b) Against its associates  :  
(c) Against its key management personnel(s) : 
(d) Against its other promoters/directors: 
(e) Other details, if any: 
  16.  Date of show cause notice/summons/communication indicating probable cause of 
action, if any, against which the settlement is sought (PLEASE ENCLOSE 
COPIES)*:  
  17.  Full and true disclosure of facts (including the loss caused, profit made, loss avoided, 
gross fees, brokerage, commissions, etc., in respect of the cause of action, with 
manner of calculation thereof): 
[APPLICANT TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE GUIDELINES PROVIDED IN 
SCHEDULE-II] 
 18.  Specific charges alleged: 
 19.  Submissions in respect of sub-regulations (2), (3) & (4) of Regulation 5: 
 20. Terms of settlement proposed by the Applicant:- 
 (a) Monetary terms, with manner of calculation:- 
 (b) Non-monetary terms, including manner of calculation of terms of disgorgement 
due:- 
 21. Original documents to be enclosed:  
(a) Undertakings and waivers (as per Format specified in Part C). 
(b) Authority letter/Board resolution. 
  22. List of other enclosures:  
(a) A copy of the notice to show cause/summons/communication/other notices 
indicating the probable cause of action, if any, against which the settlement is sought;  
                                                           
28 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020.

[Page 27]
Page 27 of 67 
 
(b) Complete Annual Reports / other relevant financial details for the last three financial 
years and the quarterly audited financial results of the current year;  
 (c) A statement showing net worth of the applicant (only for those applicants who are 
required to comply with the networth requirements as specified by the Board or by the 
stock exchanges), gross annual income before tax, the amount of gross profit made/loss 
avoided, including the gross brokerage, fees, management/performance/transaction fee, 
carried interest, compensation, etc., in respect of the said default;  
(d) Copy of PAN card/ DIN/CIN details; 
(e) Complete Income-tax Returns of the applicant for the last three financial years; 
(f) In case of a foreign body corporate applicant, include details relating to 
incorporation, place of business, registration d etails with any non -Indian financial 
sector regulatory authority.  
(g) In case of a non-resident applicant, include details relating to passport and national 
identity document, if any. 
(h) Any other relevant document (s)/submissions. 
 
 
 
 (Signature of the applicant) 
(Stamp and Seal of body corporate applicant) 
 
 
 
 
 
Verification 
 
I, ………………………………………………son/daughter/wife of (Name in block letters) 
Shri …………………………………..being the applicant/authorised representative (in case of 
body corporate) of ……………………. do hereby verify and affirm on oath that this 
application and the contents thereof are true to my knowledge and belief and as per the records 
and that I have not suppressed any material facts and sha ll keep the Board informed without 
delay, of any other relevant information that may come to my notice.

[Page 28]
Page 28 of 67 
 
(Signature of the applicant) 
Date: 
Place :  
 
Part-B 
 
Every applicant under Chapter II of these regulations shall pay a non-refundable processing fee 
of fifteen thousand rupees, 29[***] by way of 30[payment through the dedicated payment 
gateway provided for the purpose:] 
Provided that, where the applicant is a body corporate, the non-refundable processing fee shall 
be Twenty-five thousand rupees. 
  Part-C 
 
Undertakings and Waivers  
 
Format  
 
 
Undertaking to be submitted by each applicant, along with the 31[self-attested] 
application with stamp duty duly paid 32[***]. 
 
 
I/We, …………………, the applicant(s) herein, as a condition for making the enclosed 
application to the Board for examining and consideration of the application, hereby declare that 
I/we agree and undertake that: 
 
                                                           
29 The words “by way of a demand draft in favour of ‘Securities and Exchange Board of India’ payable at Mumbai 
or” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020. 
30 Substituted for the words “direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other electronic 
mode allowed by RBI.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020. 
31 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Attestation of Documents) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 28-11-2024. 
32 The words “and duly notarized at the time of execution” deleted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Attestation of Documents) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 28-11-2024.

[Page 29]
Page 29 of 67 
 
(1) I/We admit the jurisdiction and right of the Securities and Exchange Board of India to 
initiate appropriate proceedings in respect of the alleged default. 
(2) I/We further agree and undertake that the time spent during the settlement proceedings 
shall be excluded for computing the limitation perio d or laches, if any, for initiating or 
continuing or restoring any legal proceedings, if any, against me/us, and waive any 
objections in this regard.  
(3) The Securities and Exchange Board of India may enforce any claims against me/us arising 
from or/in relati on to any violation of the settlement order passed pursuant to this 
application. 
(4) Nothing in the settlement order shall preclude any other person from pursuing any other 
legal remedy to which such person may be entitled against me/us as per law. 
(5) The settlement proposed by me/us does not limit or create any private rights or remedies 
for any person who is not a party to these proceedings, against me/us.  
(6) The settlement amount including legal costs, if any, shall be paid by me/us to the Board 
within the period stipulated by the Board. 
(7) The settlement order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018, as amended from 
time to time. 
(8) I/We agree that subsequent to the passing of the settlement order, I/We shall not take any 
action or make or permit to be made any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, 
any finding of the Board including that recorded in the settlement order or creating 
impression that the settlement order is without factual basis.  
(9) I/We hereby declare that nothing in the waiver and undertaking given by me/us shall affect 
my/our (i) testimonial obligations, or (ii) right to take legal or factual positions in defence 
of litigation or in defen se of a claim or in any other legal proceeding in which the Board 
is not a party. 
(10) I/We for the limited purpose of settlement under these regulations  ‘admit the findings of 
fact and conclusions of law’ or ‘neither admit nor deny the findings of fact and conclusions 
of law’ (strike off whichever is not applicable), and agree to abide by the settlement order 
as may be passed in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 
Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 and guidelines and circulars iss ued by the Board in that 
regard:

[Page 30]
Page 30 of 67 
 
 Provided that, in relation to defaults related to disclosures other than relating to a 
prospectus or a letter of offer or a similar such document required to be made in relation to 
an issue of securities, I/we do not deny the alleged default. 
(11) I/We waive my/our right of taking any legal proceedings against the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India concerning any of the issue covered in the settlement order that 
may be passed.  
(12) I/We further waive the following: 
(a) the findings of fact and conclusions of law; 
(b) the proceedings before the Board or any officer of the Board; 
(c) the right to all post-hearing procedures; 
(d) appeal/review before the Tribunal/courts;  
(e) any plea relating to such provisions of the regulations or other requirements of law, 
including conflict of interest, as may be construed to prevent any member or officer of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India from participating in the proceedings, including 
settlement proceedings or assisting or advisin g the Internal Committee, High Powered 
Advisory Committee or Panel of Whole Time Members, as to, any order, opinion, finding 
of fact, or conclusion of law, etc.; 
(f) any plea of bias or pre -judgment by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the 
officers or the High Powered Advisory Committee, based on the consideration of or 
discussions concerning settlement of all or any part of the internal proceedings; and 
(g) any plea of limitation or laches for initiating or restoring of the proceedings, if the 
applicant violates the settlement order.  
(13) I/We undertake as a condition of settlement to not seek, directly or indirectly, any set -off, 
reimbursement by way of indemnification, insurance coverage or any other form of non-tax 
reimbursement.  
 
(Signature of the applicant with stamp and seal of the body corporate) 
Before me. 
Notary. 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE-II 
(See regulation 10)

[Page 31]
Page 31 of 67 
 
 
CHAPTER I 
 
GUIDELINES FOR ARRIVING AT SETTLEMENT TERMS 
 
 
1. The settlement amount (SA) shall comprise of the Indicative Amount (IA) arrived at in 
terms of these guidelines and the factors provided in regulation 10, wherever applicable. 
 
2. The IA shall not be less than Rupees 3 lakh for first time applicants or Rupees 7 lakh 
for others, as the case may be 33[.] 
34[***]  
 
Explanation.-A ‘first time applicant’ is a person against whom no order has been passed 
by the adjudicating officer or by the Board or who has never obtained a settlement order 
from the Board as on the date of the present application.  
 
3. Based on the stage at which the proceeding(s), for which the application is made, is/are 
pending, the proceeding conversion factor (PCF) shall be applied when calculating the 
IA.  
 
4. In cases, where an existing business or activity of a person is either corporatized or 
converted into an LLP or partnership or merged or taken over by a new management, 
the existing record of the erstwhile entity shall be deemed to be the record of the new 
entity. Considerations including insolvency, change of name or managem ent or 
ownership, etc., shall be considered in accordance with the guidelines issued by the 
Board, if any, from time to time. 
 
                                                           
33 Substituted for the symbol “:” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020. 
34 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations , 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022. Prior to its omission, the provision read as below:  
“Provided that in case of individual applicants who submit to the satisfaction of the IC or HPAC or Panel of 
WTMs that, without knowledge of the illegal activity, they had lent  the use of their securities account to the key 
operator or intermediary or securities market infrastructure institution involved in such activity, the SA may not 
exceed the minimum penalty for that violation under securities laws.”

[Page 32]
Page 32 of 67 
 
5. PCF for Applications made voluntary or seeking settlement with confidentiality: Where 
an entity desires to obtain the benefit of a lower PCF, it may, suo motto, before the 
receipt of any notice to show cause, intimate the Board of such default hereinafter 
referred to as ‘intimation defaults’ and co -operate with the Board in the investigation, 
inquiry, inspection or audit. Such an ap plication shall be deemed to have been made 
‘Pre- issue of notice to show cause’ for the purpose of calculating the PCF. 
 
6. The IA shall be calculated per count of default, jointly or separately as per the facts and 
circumstances of the case, in accordance with these guidelines. 
 
7. While considering the application, the alleged default(s) detailed in the Inspection 
Report or the Investigation Report or the Report of the Designated Authority (DA) or 
the notice to show cause, including any supplementary notice to show cause issued by 
any authority in a pending proceeding, or the facts/findings detailed in the order of the 
Designated Member (DM) or the Whole Time Member (WTM) or the Adjudicating 
Officer (AO) or the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT), as applicable, may be the 
basis for calculating the IA.  
   
 In case, the Internal Committee (IC) or the High Powered Advisory Committee 
(HPAC) or the Panel of Whole Time Members (WTMs) are of the opinion that the facts 
disclose a different default, the modification of the charge(s) may be sought.  
 
8. The alleged defaults shall, wherever applicable, be categorised based on the facts and 
circumstances by the IC or HPAC or the Panel of WTMs.  
 
9. Notwithstanding anything contained in these guidelines, the IC or HPAC or Panel of 
WTMs shall have the d iscretion to recommend acceptance or rejection or accept or 
reject an application, to recommend an amount, lower or higher than the amounts 
arrived at in terms of these guidelines, for reasons to be recorded, in accordance with 
the provisions of securities  laws, considering the facts and circumstances of the case 
and the gravity of the charges.  
 
10. In case the applicant is body corporate, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may require 
that the SA payable by a body corporate is to be paid by the officers in default including

[Page 33]
Page 33 of 67 
 
the persons in charge of the body corporate to avoid burdening investors holding 
securities issued by the body corporate: 
Explanation. – The principle in clause 10 may be applied mutatis mutandis  to the 
sponsor, manager, or trustee (by whatever name called) of a trust, the karta of a Hindu 
Undivided Family, the office bearers of an association of persons, as the case may be. 
 
11. In cases where the formulae for calculating the IA are inapplicable or cannot be adapted 
due to the peculiar nature of the default or the facts and circumstances of the case or 
where the defaults detailed in the Tables in these guidelines are not covered, the IC or 
HPAC or Panel of WTMs may arrive at the SA, as they deem fit. 
 
35[11A. The applicant shall be provided opportunity of hearing or meeting only before the 
Internal Committee.] 
 
12. In case of an amendment(s) or repeal of the securities laws, these guidelines shall 
continue to apply to similar provisions under the amended or  new laws, mutatis 
mutandis. 
 
 
Chapter II 
 
INDICATIVE AMOUNT AND THE SETTLEMENT AMOUNT 
 
Indicative amount (IA) shall be calculated as follows: 
 
IA= A X B + Legal Costs# 
 
 
 
#Legal costs of the Board may be applicable to an application made at the stages 
mentioned in points “b”, “d” and “e” as provided in Table I.  
                                                           
35 Inserted by the Secur ities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020

[Page 34]
Page 34 of 67 
 
 
Where: 
‘A’ = PCF + RAF 
A: Multiplying Factor. 
PCF: Proceeding Conversion Factor. 
RAF: Regulatory Action Factor. 
 
‘B’ = BV x BA 
B: Applicable Benchmark Amount, is the amount attributable to every count of the 
alleged default in accordance with these guidelines; 
‘BV’: Aggregate of the base values given to the relevant factors including the 
aggravating and mitigating factors in respect of a particular charge. 
‘BA’: Base amount attributable to every count of the alleged default in accordance with 
these guidelines. 
 
1. The IA shall not exceed the maximum penalty under securities laws that may be levied for 
each count of violation multiplied by the counts of alleged default in accordance with these 
guidelines. 
 
2. (a) Where an order of penalty has been passed prior to making an application, then ‘B’ 
shall not be less than the penalty so awarded; 
(b) In case more than one proceeding arising from the same cause of action has been 
initiated against the applicant, the IA shall be increased by 20%;  
 
3. In case of grant of confidentiality, the IA arrived in accordance with this Schedule shall, 
be further reduced as follows, - 
 
i. those marked first in priority status may be granted reduction of up to  or equal 
to ninety percent of the IA;  
ii. those marked second in priority status may be granted reduction of upto or equal 
to fifty percent of the IA; and 
iii. those marked third or subsequent in the priority status may be granted reduction 
upto or equal to twenty five percent of the IA.

[Page 35]
Page 35 of 67 
 
4. The amount which is finally approved by the Panel of Whole Time Members is the SA. 
 
5. 36[***]  
 
 
CHAPTER III 
 
PROCEEDING CONVERSION FACTOR  
 
 
The values assigned on the basis of the stage of the proceedings, as on the date of the 
application, shall be the PCF as per Table I: 
Provided that where multiple proceedings arising out of the same cause of action are sought to 
be settled, the value of the proceeding which is at the most advanced stage, irrespective of the 
stage of progress of the other proceedings, shall be taken as the PCF. 
 
37[TABLE-I 
                                                           
36 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022. Prior to its omission, the provision read as below: 
“Notwithstanding anything in this Schedule, - 
i. where a compounding application has been filed in respect of an offence under securities laws for non -
payment of penalty, the proposal agreeing to the composition of the off ence may be made to the court in lieu of 
such penalty and interest as deemed appropriate along with legal charges as determined by the Board;  
ii. where a compounding application has been filed in respect of an offence under securities laws other than 
for non-payment of penalty, the proposal agreeing to the composition of the offence may be made to the court in 
lieu of terms as may be approved by the Panel of Whole Time Members; and  
iii. where a compounding application is filed after framing of the charges by the court, the proposal agreeing 
to the composition may be made after increasing the amount calculated under this Schedule by atleast twenty-five 
per-cent along with legal charges and along with any other terms as may be approved by the Panel of Whole Time 
Members.” 
37 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022. Prior to its substitution, the table read as below: 
“TABLE- I 
PCF 
 
STAGE OF THE PROCEEDING(S) WHEN THE SETTLEMENT APPLICATION IS MADE 
VALUE 
OF PCF 
a.  Voluntary or for seeking settlement with confidentiality 0.65 
b.  Pre- issue of the notice to show cause (including applications filed on 
receipt of the settlement notice/summary settlement notice) 
[Or 
Compounding application filed pre-summoning] 
0.75

[Page 36]
Page 36 of 67 
 
PROCEEDING CONVERSION FACTOR 
STAGE OF THE PROCEEDING(S) WHEN THE SETTLEMENT 
APPLICATION IS FILED 
VALUE 
OF PCF 
a.  Voluntary or for seeking settlement with confidentiality 0.40 
b.  Pre- issue of the notice to show cause/Summary Settlement 0.50 
c.  Post-issue of the first notice to show cause pertaining to any 
pending proceeding in the same cause of action 
0.65 
d.  Proceeding pending after the submission of the report by the 
Designated Authority 
0.80 
e.  Proceedings pending after passing of a final order imposing 
penalty or issuing civil and administrative directions, as the case 
may be 
1.20 
f.  Proceedings pending after the passing of the order by the 
Securities Appellate Tribunal or Court 
1.50” 
]  
 
 
  
                                                           
c.  Post-issue of the first notice to show cause pertaining to any pending 
proceeding in the same cause of action (including applications filed after 
period provided in settlement notice) 
[Or 
Compounding application filed before the framing of charge] 
0.85 
d.  Proceeding pending after the submission of the report by the Designated 
Authority  
[Or 
Compounding application filed after framing of charge] 
0.9 
e.  Proceedings pending after passing of a final order imposing penalty or 
issuing civil and administrative directions, as the case may be  
1.10 
f.  Proceedings pending after the passing of the order by the Securities 
Appellate Tribunal or Court  
1.20 
”

[Page 37]
Page 37 of 67 
 
CHAPTER IV 
 
REGULATORY ACTION FACTOR -VALUE FOR ALL ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS 
 
 
The sum of all the values assigned to the order and regulatory direction(s) issued in the past, if 
any, shall be ‘RAF’. 
 
‘RAF’= X + Y 
 
 
“TABLE II -VALUE for ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS ISSUED X* 
 
* To also include those orders and directions which have been stayed by the Securities 
Appellate Tribunal or Court, as on the date of the application. In case multiple proceedings 
have been initiated for the same cause of action, the value shall be added for each final order 
passed. 
ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS ISSUED TO THE APPLICANT X 
PER ORDER 
Exonerated cases (i.e. cases where applicant was exonerated in an order or 
appeal or review) and any settlement order involving confidentiality  
0 
Any other Settlement Order 0.01 
ALL OTHER ORDERS (EXCEPT FOR WHICH THE APPLICATION IS FILED) 
Cease and desist order 0.02 
Final order issued against other persons associated with the securities markets 0.05 
Final order issued against an intermediary or securities market infrastructure 
institutions
  or listed companies, and their principal officers 
0.075 
In this schedule an ‘intermediary or securities market infrastructure institutions’ includes any 
person required by securities laws to be registered or recognised by the Board.

[Page 38]
Page 38 of 67 
 
TABLE III- VALUE FOR ORDER OR DIRECTION PASSED OR ISSUED FOR WHICH THE 
APPLICATION IS FILED – Y 
 
FINAL ORDER AGAINST 
INTERMEDIARY OR SECURITIES 
MARKET INFRASTRUCTURE 
INSTITUTION, FOR WHICH APPLIED 
FINAL ORDER AGAINST ANY PERSON 
OTHER THAN INTERMEDIARY OR 
SECURITIES MARKET INFRASTRUCTURE 
INSTITUTION, FOR WHICH APPLIED 
‘Y’ 
PER 
ORDER 
Warning issued 0.05 
Suspension/Debarment upto 1 month Debarment upto 6 calendar months 0.1 
Suspension/Debarment for 1 month or 
more, but less than 6 months 
Debarment for 6 calendar months or 
more, but less than 1 year 
0.15 
Suspension/Debarment for 6 month or 
more but less than 1 year  
Debarment for 1 year or more but less 
than 2 years 
0.2 
Suspension/Debarment for 1 year or 
more but less than 2 years 
Debarment for 2 years or more but less 
than 3 years 
0.25 
Suspension/Debarment for 2 years or 
more  
Debarment for 3 years or more  0.3 
 
 
 
CHAPTER V 
 
APPLICABLE BASE VALUES AND FACTORS 
 
 BV= 1+ SUM OF APPLICABLE BASE VALUES 
 
 
I. While assessing the relevant factors, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into 
account the following general mitigating factors with a base value of ‘-0.2’ 38[for each 
of them wherever applicable, subject to a maximum limit of 3]: 
                                                           
38 Substituted for the words “applied once for all or any of them” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020.

[Page 39]
Page 39 of 67 
 
1. The quantum of IA wou ld affect the ability of the applicant to make restitution to 
investors: 
Explanation. - In such cases higher IA may be sought from the officer who is in default. 
2. The applicant had minimal participation in the alleged default; 
3. Proactive and exceptional cooperation, including: 
a. Prompt and detailed self-identification of suspected or uncovered misconduct; 
b. Early self -identification of contraventions followed by thorough internal 
reviews and sharing of discovered facts; 
c. Substantial assistance to an investigation or inquiry by obtaining and providing 
evidence. 
 
4. Acceptance of responsibility and acknowledgement of misconduct to the Board prior 
to detection and intervention by truthfully admitting the conduct; 
5. Voluntarily employing subsequent substantial corrective measures to avoid recurrence 
of misconduct; 
6. Where the delay in complying with the reporting requirement was less than 7 days and 
non-reporting did not result in undue gain or loss to any person; 
7. Voluntary acts of compensation, disgorgement of commission, profits and payment of 
restitution to investors; 
8. Disclosure made in the incorrect format;  
9. Applicant is a unit of governmental authority including a public-sector unit. 
 
II. While assessing the relevant factors, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into 
account the following general aggravating factors with a base value of ‘0.2’ 38[for each 
of them wherever applicable, subject to a maximum limit of 3]: 
1. Efforts to frustrate or prolong an investigation, inquiry or a civil and administrative 
proceeding, including settlement proceedings: 
2. Providing inaccurate or misleading testimony or information or wilfully failing to 
provide information that he was bound to provide; 
3. Misconduct over an extended period of time which is not less than 30 days; 
4. Significant monetary loss to the clients which exceeds in aggregate of Rs 5 crores; 
5. Applicant had failed to heed prior regulatory guidance and prior warnings; 
6. Evidence of planning, pre-meditation or sophisticated means:

[Page 40]
Page 40 of 67 
 
Explanation: Conducting default across different jurisdictions, hiding assets or 
transactions, or both, through the use of fictitious entities, corporate shells or offshore 
financial accounts ordinarily indicates sophisticated means. 
   
7. A listed intermediary or securities market infrastructure institution was substantially 
jeopardized: 
Explanation. - A listed intermediary or securities market infrastructure institution shall 
be deemed to have been substantially jeopardized if as a result of the alleged default: 
a. it has become insolvent or an application under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016 was admitted; 
b. it was unable on demand to refund fully any public deposit, payment or 
investment; or 
c. it is so depleted of assets that it is forced to merge with another institution in 
order to continue active operations. 
 
8. The liquidity of the securities of a publicly traded company was substantially 
endangered i.e. it was delisted or trading of the company’s securities was halted for 
more than one full trading day; 
9. The applicant abused a position of trust or used a special skill, in a manner su ch that 
significantly facilitated the commission or concealment of the alleged default: 
Explanation 1. - This factor applies if the applicant occupied and abused a position of 
trust. It does not apply to an ordinary tippee. 
 
Explanation 2. - This factor applies if the applicant’s position involved regular 
participation or professional assistance in creating, issuing, buying, selling, or trading 
securities or products was used to facilitate significantly the commission or 
concealment of the default. It does not apply to clerical staff in an organisation; as such 
position ordinarily does not involve special skill. 
 
Explanation 3. - ‘Special skill’ refers to a skill not possessed by members of the general 
public and requires profe ssional education, training or licensing, e.g. chartered 
accountant, advocate, auditor, compliance officer, etc.

[Page 41]
Page 41 of 67 
 
Explanation 4. - This factor also applies where the applicant has represented himself to 
hold a position of trust when, in fact, he does not. 
 
10. The applicant was the key-operator, whether or not he himself traded: 
Explanation 1. - A person is a key-operator if he was an organizer or leader of an illegal 
activity or the main beneficiary of the default: 
Provided that, if a person is merely a manager or supervisor (but not an organizer or 
leader or the main beneficiary) then he is not a key-operator. 
 
Explanation 2. - The IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into account factors 
such as share of profits, the recruitment of accomplices, the degr ee of control and 
authority exercised over others. 
 
11. Exercising management control by use of fraudulent or forged securities or securities 
issued without appropriate approvals;  
12. Reporting of false information. 
 
III. While assessing the relevant factors, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into 
account the following factors tending to show the alleged default was deliberate with a 
base value of ‘0.25’ 38[for each of them wherever applicable, subject to a maximum 
limit of 3]: 
1. The actions were not in accordance with the applicable internal procedures;   
2. The individual knowingly took decisions re lating to the violation beyond his field of 
competence;   
3. The individual intended to benefit financially from the violation, either directly or 
indirectly;  
4. The alleged default was repetitive.  
 
IV. While assessing the relevant factors, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into 
account the following factor tending to show the alleged default was reckless with a 
base value of ‘0.3’: 
1. The body corporate or the responsible person, appreciated there was a risk that their 
actions or inaction could result in a violation of securities laws and failed adequately to 
mitigate that risk:

[Page 42]
Page 42 of 67 
 
Explanation. – The following shall be deemed to be reckless, - 
a. failure to appoint competent officials for discharge of their duties, including a 
compliance officer;  
b. failure to put in place adequate systemic safeguards; or 
c. failure to put in place a code of conduct. 
  
V. While considering the various factors and the aggregate base values, the following 
specific base values shall also be taken into account, - 
 
TABLE IV- GENERAL BASE VALUES, APPLICABLE IN ALL CASES 
NATURE OF VIOLATION  BASE VALUE 
a.  
 
Fraudulent and unfair trade practice 
(FUTP); or Insider trading, 
including tipping (IT); or violation 
of code of conduct noted in an 
investigation or inquiry related to 
FUTP or IT  
 
Or  
 
FUTP or IT in combination with 
the violation of code of conduct or 
any other regulation  
 
Or  
 
FUTP in combination IT or in 
combination with a violation of 
requirement relating to anti-money 
laundering and know your client. 
 
Or  
 
0.25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.35

[Page 43]
Page 43 of 67 
 
Failure by a market infrastructure 
institution or its principal officers 
to conduct its business in a fair 
manner. 
 
Or  
 
Failure by a market infrastructure 
institution or its principal officers 
to conduct its business in a fair 
manner in combination with FUTP 
or IT or the violation of code of 
conduct or any other regulation  
 
0.50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.75 
 
 
 
[In case multiple are applicable, only 
the highest value shall be applied.] 
b.  Factors for volume traded and/or 
price change for the default 
Sum of ‘ V’, ‘P’  and ‘Q’, wherever 
applicable, to be applied to each 
member of  group or the applicant 
when he acts alone, only if the volume 
traded or price change, quantity traded 
in respect of the group, of which the 
applicant is a part of or the applicant 
when he acts alone, as the case may 
be, can be calculated from the findings 
brought out in the investigation report 
or inquiry or notice to show cause or 
order, as the case may be. 
In case multiple trading periods are 
involved, the highest change has to be 
considered. 
c.  Time value of ill-gotten gains* 0.09 × multiple of calendar years from 
the date of commission of the default

[Page 44]
Page 44 of 67 
 
d.  
 
Reputation risk applicable in all 
settlements without admitting 
violation of securities laws 
All applicants: 0.25 
 
e.  Violation in illiquid scrip 0.3 
f.  Persons who are indigent or 
undergoing liquidation or 
bankruptcy process or whose 
resolution/repayment plan has been 
submitted to the adjudicating 
authority for approval 
- 0.3 
 
 
*Factor ‘c’ is applicable only in cases where the actual profit and/or loss avoided 
(approx.) is determinable and disgorgement with interest is not ordered. Wh ile 
calculating the period, the fractions may be ignored. 
  
 
‘V’ = VALUE FOR THE HIGHEST % OF VOLUME TRADED IN ANY TRADING PERIOD DURING 
THE ENTIRE PERIOD OF VIOLATION  
In case of more than one scrip, the scrip with the highest volume traded is to be 
considered 
 
TABLE IVA- SPECIAL BASE VALUES, IN ADDITION TO GENERAL BASE VALUES 
  % VOLUME TRADED 
(ILLIQUID SCRIP) 
‘V’ 
 
% VOLUME TRADED 
(LIQUID SCRIP) 
Upto 50% 0.1 Upto 2% 
50 -60% 0.15 2-5% 
60-75% 0.2 5-10% 
75% or more 0.25 10% or more 
 
‘P’ = VALUE FOR HIGHEST % OF PRICE CHANGE DURING THE ENTIRE PERIOD OF 
VIOLATION

[Page 45]
Page 45 of 67 
 
In case of more than one scrip, the scrip with the highest price change is to be 
considered 
 
 
TABLE IVB- SPECIAL BASE VALUES, IN ADDITION TO GENERAL BASE VALUES 
% PRICE CHANGE 
(ILLIQUID SCRIP) 
‘P’ 
 
% PRICE CHANGE 
(LIQUID SCRIP) 
Upto 50% 0.1 Upto 5% 
50-100% 0.15 5-10% 
100-200% 0.2 10-20% 
200% or more 0.25 20% or more 
 
‘Q’ = VALUE FOR HIGHEST % OF PRICE CHANGE, DURING THE PERIOD OF DEFAULT FOR 
F&O & LEVERAGED PRODUCTS 
In case of more than one product, the contract with the highest price change is to be 
considered 
 
TABLE IVC- SPECIAL BASE VALUES, IN ADDITION TO GENERAL BASE VALUES 
% PRICE CHANGE ‘Q’ 
Upto 0.5% 0.1 
0.5-1% 0.15 
1-5% 0.2 
5% or more 0.25 
 
 
TABLE V- SPECIAL BASE VALUES, IN ADDITION TO GENERAL BASE VALUES FOR 
DISCLOSURE AND OPEN OFFER DEFAULTS 
NATURE OF VIOLATION  BASE VALUE 
a.  In Non-disclosure (including incorrect or 
incomplete disclosure) charge under any 
regulation relating to takeover, insider trading 
or issue or listing of securities in combination 
with any other charge 
0.20

[Page 46]
Page 46 of 67 
 
b.  In Non-Disclosure (including incorrect or 
incomplete disclosure) matters: Applicant has 
made related disclosure under any other 
regulation or is a body corporate with paid-up 
equity share capital (including reserves) below 
Rupees Ten crores (not applicable to companies 
which are exclusively holding companies) 
- 0.5 
c.  In open offer violations: acquirer not in control 
of target company, prior to triggering the 
takeover 
0.25 
 
VI. In cases of multiple applicants where joint and several liabilities exists, a single IA may 
be based on the factors and the weightages applicable to the default in general, as the 
IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may deem fit and any other factor may also be 
considered while imposing any limit in respect of amounts that may be required from a 
particular applicant, in respect of the IA calculated for multiple applicants. 
 
 
CHAPTER VI 
 
APPLICABLE BASE AMOUNT 
 
APPLICABLE BA = 'The illegal profits’ + ‘loss caused to investors' [quantified as per 
the guidelines, if any, issued by the Board] 
Or 
The BA as per the Tables in this Chapter, 
whichever is higher. 
GENERAL GUIDELINE : In case the applicant is charged for non -disclosure under 
Regulations relating to Open Offer [ SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, SEBI  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, and any subsequent similar regulations] and PIT [Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading)  Regulations, 1992, 
SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading)  Regulations, 2015, and any subsequent similar

[Page 47]
47 
 
regulations], the highest of the Base Amount arrived at for such charges shall be reduced 
by 75%. 
TABLE-VI  
 
BA FOR ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO OPEN OFFER 
NATURE OF VIOLATION  BA FOR ACQUIRER AND PERSONS ACTING IN 
CONCERT 
DELAYED OPEN OFFER 
 
 
RUPEES 25 LAKH 
OR  
0.25% OF THE OPEN OFFER SIZE, I.E. MAX NUMBER 
OF SHARES FOR WHICH OPEN OFFER MUST BE GIVEN 
X APPLICABLE OPEN OFFER PRICE, WHICHEVER IS 
HIGHER 
 
DELAYED OPEN OFFER  
(AFTER DIRECTION FROM THE 
BOARD) 
 
RUPEES 50 LAKH 
OR  
0.5% OF THE OPEN OFFER SIZE, 
WHICHEVER IS HIGHER 
39[ WHERE THE MAKING OF THE OPEN 
OFFER IS INFRUCTUOUS  
 
 
 
INFRUCTUOUS BY AN 
ACT OF THE 
ACQUIRER 
INFRUCTUOUS BY AN 
ACT OF THE COMPANY 
OR BY ANY OTHER 
REASON 
RUPEES 1 CRORE OR 
OPEN OFFER SIZE, 
WHICHEVER IS HIGHER 
ANY AMOUNT BETWEEN 
RUPEES 10 LAKHS TO 
RUPEES 35 LAKHS;  
                                                           
39 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020. Before substitution, the words read as under: 
“WHERE THE MAKING OF THE OPEN OFFER IS INFRUCTUOUS I.E. WHEN COMPANY HAS BEEN  
DELISTED, WHEN OPEN OFFER IS NOT BENEFICIAL TO SHAREHOLDERS, ETC  
INFRUCTUOUS BY AN ACT OF THE COMPANY REQUIRED TO MAKE AN OPEN OFFER 
INFRUCTUOUS DUE TO OTHER REASON, INCLUDING WHEN OPEN OFFER IS NOT BENEFICIAL TO 
SHAREHOLDERS 
RUPEES 1 CRORE OR OPEN OFFER SIZE, WHICHEVER IS HIGHER 
ANY AMOUNT BETWEEN THE MINIMUM PENALTY TO PROBABLE COST OF OPEN OFFER AS 
RECOMMENDED BY THE CORPORATE FINANCE DEPARTMENT OF THE BOARD”

[Page 48]
48 
 
WITH A MULTIPLIER 
BETWEEN 1 TO 3 AS 
DECIDED BY THE IC OR 
HPAC OR THE PANEL OF 
WTMS ] 
 
40[TABLE-VII 
                                                           
40 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022. Prior to its substitution, the table read as below: 
“TABLE-VII   
 
BA FOR ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO DISCLOSURES UNDER SECURITIES EXCHANGE BOARD OF 
INDIA (SUBSTANTIAL ACQUISITION OF SHARES AND TAKEOVERS) REGULATIONS -1997/2011 
 
PERCENTAGE OF 
SHAREHOLDING OR VOTING 
RIGHTS  ACQUIRED OR 
DISPOSED BUT NOT DISCLOSED 
OR PERCENTAGE OF 
ENCUMBERED SHARES  BUT NOT 
DISCLOSED, ETC. 
BA FOR VIOLATION OF  
REGULATION 7 OF 
1997 REGULATIONS 
 
OR 
 
REGULATION 29 OF 
2011 REGULATIONS  
 
(I) 
REGULATION 8 OF  
1997 REGULATIONS  
 
OR 
 
REGULATION 30 OF  
2011 REGULATIONS  
 
(II) 
REGULATION 8A 
OF 1997 
REGULATIONS 
 
OR 
 
REGULATION  
31 OF  2011 
REGULATIONS 
 
(III) 
Less than 2% Rupees 2 lakh 
+ 
Rupees 5,000/- For every three months delay# or part thereof  
2% to less than 5% Rupees 5 lakh 
+ 
Rupees 10,000/- For every three months delay or part thereof 
5% to less than 10% Rupees 10 lakh 
+ 
Rupees 15,000/- For every three months delay or part thereof 
10 % to less than 15% Rupees 15 lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding not disclosed, etc. 
+ 
Rupees 20,000/- For every three months delay or part thereof

[Page 49]
49 
 
BASE AMOUNT FOR ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO DISCLOSURES 
UNDER SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (SUBSTANTIAL 
ACQUISITION OF SHARES AND TAKEOVERS) REGULATIONS -1997/2011 
PERCENTAGE OF 
SHAREHOLDING 
OR VOTING RIGHTS 
ACQUIRED OR 
DISPOSED BUT NOT 
DISCLOSED OR 
PERCENTAGE OF 
ENCUMBERED 
SHARES BUT NOT 
DISCLOSED, ETC. 
BASE AMOUNT FOR VIOLATION OF  
REGULATION 7 OF 
1997 
REGULATIONS 
OR 
REGULATION 29 
OF 2011 
REGULATIONS  
 
(I) 
REGULATION 8 
OF 1997 
REGULATIONS  
OR 
REGULATION 30 
OF 2011 
REGULATIONS  
 
(II) 
REGULATION 8A OF 
1997 REGULATIONS 
 
OR 
REGULATION  
31 OF 2011 
REGULATIONS 
 
(III) 
Less than 2% Rupees 2 lakh 
+ Rupees 5,000/- For every three months delay# or part thereof  
2% to less than 
5% 
Rupees 4 lakh 
+ Rupees 10,000/- For every three months delay or part thereof 
5% to less than 
10% 
Rupees 7 lakh 
+ Rupees 15,000/- For every three months delay or part thereof 
                                                           
15% and above  Rupees 20 lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding not disclosed, etc. 
+ 
Rupees 25,000/- For every three months delay or part thereof 
 
Notes to Table VII:  
 
1. Table VII is not applicable in cases where the disclosure related violation is in combination with 
FUTP or IT. 
Explanation: Dealing while in possession of material financial or shareholding information may be 
treated as IT.  
2. The BA for violation at (II) shall only be as per the lowest slab, irrespective of change in 
shareholding over the reporting period. In case of violations related to disclosures that are required 
to be made annually \ the amount for delay for every three months or part thereof shall be 
computed only for the first disclosure violation. In case the noticee complies with the annual 
reporting requirements for a few years, such compliance will not result in a higher amount than 
would have otherwise be calculated for continuous violations. 
3. The period of delay is to be calculated from the last day, when the disclosure ought to have been 
made, as required by the regulations.”

[Page 50]
50 
 
BASE AMOUNT FOR ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO DISCLOSURES 
UNDER SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (SUBSTANTIAL 
ACQUISITION OF SHARES AND TAKEOVERS) REGULATIONS -1997/2011 
PERCENTAGE OF 
SHAREHOLDING 
OR VOTING RIGHTS 
ACQUIRED OR 
DISPOSED BUT NOT 
DISCLOSED OR 
PERCENTAGE OF 
ENCUMBERED 
SHARES BUT NOT 
DISCLOSED, ETC. 
BASE AMOUNT FOR VIOLATION OF  
REGULATION 7 OF 
1997 
REGULATIONS 
OR 
REGULATION 29 
OF 2011 
REGULATIONS  
 
(I) 
REGULATION 8 
OF 1997 
REGULATIONS  
OR 
REGULATION 30 
OF 2011 
REGULATIONS  
 
(II) 
REGULATION 8A OF 
1997 REGULATIONS 
 
OR 
REGULATION  
31 OF 2011 
REGULATIONS 
 
(III) 
10 % to less than 
15% 
Rupees 9 lakh 
+ 0.1 % of the value of the holding not disclosed, etc. 
+ Rupees 20,000/- For every three months delay or part thereof 
15% and above  Rupees 10 lakh 
+ 0.1 % of the value of the holding not disclosed, etc. 
+ Rupees 25,000/- For every three months delay or part thereof 
 
Notes to Table VII:  
1. Table VII is not applicable in cases where the disclosure related violation is in 
combination with Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices or Insider Trading.  
Explanation: Dealing while in possession of material financial or shareholding 
information may be treated as Insider Trading.  
2. The BA for violation at (II) shall only be as per the lowest slab, irrespective of change 
in shareholding over the reporting period. In c ase of violations related to disclosures 
that are required to be made annually the amount for delay for every three months or 
part thereof shall be computed only for the first disclosure violation. In case the noticee 
complies with the annual reporting requirements for a few years, such compliance will 
not result in a higher amount than would have otherwise be calculated for continuous 
violations.

[Page 51]
51 
 
3. The period of delay is to be calculated from the last day, when the disclosure ought 
to have been made, as required by the regulations.  
4. If the disclosure for any violation is made after a period of more than 4 Quarters, 
then the value for 4 Quarters would be taken as maximum value for that specific 
disclosure violation. 
5. If there are multiple transaction attracting disclosure requirement in a Quarter, then the value 
of highest change and max. delay may be considered for arriving at the base amount 
irrespective of count of violations.] 
 
41[Table-VIII 
                                                           
41 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022. Prior to its substitution, the table read as below: 
 
“TABLE VIII  
 
BA – ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO TRANSACTION SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES UNDER REGULATIONS 
13(3), 13(4), 13(4A) AND CORRESPONDING 13 (6) OF 1992 PIT REGULATIONS [INCLUDES, 
CORRESPONDING TRANSACTION SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES UNDER REGULATIONS OF 2015  PIT 
REGULATIONS] 
PERCENTAGE OF SHAREHOLDING OR VOTING 
RIGHTS  ACQUIRED OR DISPOSED BUT NOT 
DISCLOSED OR PERCENTAGE OF ENCUMBERED 
SHARES  BUT NOT DISCLOSED, ETC. 
BA 
Less than 2% Rupees 2.5 lakh 
+ 
Rupees 7,500/- For every three months delay or part 
thereof 
2% to less than 5% Rupees 6 lakh 
+ 
Rupees 12,500/- For every three months delay or 
part thereof 
5% to less than 10% Rupees 12 lakh 
+ 
Rupees 17,500/- For every three months delay or 
part thereof 
10 % to less than 15% Rupees 18 lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding 
not disclosed, etc. 
+ 
Rupees 22,500/- For every three months delay or 
part thereof 
15% and above  Rupees 25 lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding 
not disclosed, etc. 
+ 
Rupees 25,000/- For every three months delay or 
part thereof 
 
Notes to Table VIII:

[Page 52]
52 
 
BASE AMOUNT – ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO TRANSACTION 
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES UNDER REGULATIONS 13(3), 13(4), 13(4A) AND 13 
(6) OF 1992 PIT REGULATIONS [INCLUDES CORRESPONDING 
TRANSACTION SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES UNDER 2015 PIT REGULATIONS] 
PERCENTAGE OF 
SHAREHOLDING OR 
VOTING RIGHTS ACQUIRED 
OR DISPOSED BUT NOT 
DISCLOSED OR 
PERCENTAGE OF 
ENCUMBERED SHARES BUT 
NOT DISCLOSED, ETC. 
BASE AMOUNT 
Less than 2% Rupees 2 lakh 
+ Rupees 7,500/- For every three months delay or 
part thereof 
2% to less than 5% Rupees 4 lakh 
+ Rupees 12,500/ - For every three months delay 
or part thereof 
5% to less than 10% Rupees 7 lakh 
+ Rupees 17,500/ - For every three months delay 
or part thereof 
10 % to less than 15% Rupees 9 lakh 
+ 0.1 % of the value of the holding not disclosed, 
etc. 
+ Rupees 22,500/ - For every three months delay 
or part thereof 
15% and above  Rupees 10 lakh 
                                                           
 
1. In cases of disclosure related violations by connected persons or by key managerial persons, the 
BA may be increased by 25%.  
2. Table VIII is not applicable in cases where the disclosure related violation is in combination with 
FUTP or IT. 
Explanation: Dealing while in possession of material financial or shareholding information may be 
treated as IT.”

[Page 53]
53 
 
BASE AMOUNT – ALLEGED DEFAULT RELATING TO TRANSACTION 
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES UNDER REGULATIONS 13(3), 13(4), 13(4A) AND 13 
(6) OF 1992 PIT REGULATIONS [INCLUDES CORRESPONDING 
TRANSACTION SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES UNDER 2015 PIT REGULATIONS] 
PERCENTAGE OF 
SHAREHOLDING OR 
VOTING RIGHTS ACQUIRED 
OR DISPOSED BUT NOT 
DISCLOSED OR 
PERCENTAGE OF 
ENCUMBERED SHARES BUT 
NOT DISCLOSED, ETC. 
BASE AMOUNT 
+ 0.1 % of the value of the holding not disclosed, 
etc. 
+ Rupees 25,000/ - For every three months delay 
or part thereof 
Notes to Table VIII:  
1. In cases of disclosure related violations by connected persons or b y key managerial 
persons, the BA may be increased by 25%.  
2. Table VIII is not applicable in cases where the disclosure related violation is in 
combination with Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices or Insider Trading.  
Explanation: Dealing while in possession of material financial or shareholding 
information may be treated as Insider Trading. 
3. If the disclosure for any violation is made after a period of 4 Quarters, then the value 
for 4 Quarters would be the maximum value for that specific disclosure violation. 
4. If there are multiple transactions attracting disclosure requirements in a Quarter, then 
the value of highest change and maximum delay may be considered for arriving at the 
Base Amount irrespective of the count of violations.] 
 
 
TABLE IX  
BA - DISCLOSURES RELATED VIOLATIONS NOT COVERED IN TABLES VII AND VIII  
NATURE OF ALLEGED DEFAULT BASE AMOUNT

[Page 54]
54 
 
TYPE OF DISCLOSURE RELATED VIOLATION 
PIT REGULATIONS 
Periodical and other disclosures  
Rupees 5 lakh 
+ 
Rupees 5,000/- for every three 
months delay or part thereof, if 
applicable 
 
OPEN OFFER REGULATIONS 
Reporting requirements or disclosures for which 
exemptions are available, except cases of non-
compliance of a condition precedent for availing 
exemption would result in triggering of an open offer 
obligation 
(The Regulation 6 of 1997 Regulations are dated and no 
amount may be imposed for its violation, except in case 
of standalone violations of Regulation 6 the minimum 
SA may be applicable) 
 
Rupees 5 lakh 
+ 
Rupees 10,000/- for every three 
months delay or part thereof, if 
applicable 
VIOLATIONS UNDER REGULATIONS RELATED TO 42[FOREIGN PORTFOLIO INVESTORS]  
Failure to provide information  
 
Rupees 20 lakh per default 
 
Intimation of material changes Rupees 10.0 lakh per default 
RESIDUARY 
Code of conduct reporting requirements 
or 
Disclosures on appointment of director 
or 
 
Rupees 5 lakh 
                                                           
42 Substituted for the words “FOREIGN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS” by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022.

[Page 55]
55 
 
Any other disclosure related violations that are not 
detailed in this Chapter, if deemed appropriate 
+ 
Rupees 10,000/- for every three 
months delay or part thereof, if 
applicable 
 
 
Notes to Table IX:  
 
1. In cases of disclosure related violations by key managerial persons, the 
Benchmark Amount may be increased by 25%.  
2. Table IX is not applicable in cases where the disclosure related violation is in 
combination with FUTP or IT. 
Explanation: Dealing while in possession of material financial or shareholding 
information may be treated as IT.  
 
 
43[Table-X 
                                                           
43 “Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 14-01-2022. Prior to its substitution, the table read as below: 
 
[TABLE-X  
RESIDUARY BA, FOR EACH UNIT OF ALLEGED DEFAULT FOR EACH APPLICANT OR ON JOINT LIABILITY 
BASIS (AS PER THE SUM OF APPLICABLE AMOUNTS IN CASE OF JOINT APPLICANTS) 
 INDIVID
UAL 
(PROMO
TERS 
AND 
PRINCIP
AL 
OFFICE
RS NOT 
INCLUD
ED) 
 
(I) 
BODY 
CORPO
RATE 
& 
FIRM 
 
(INCLU
DING 
PROMO
TERS 
AND 
PRINCI
PAL 
OFFICE
RS IN  
CASES 
RELATI
NG TO 
JOINT 
LIABILI
TY 
WITH 
PROMO
TERS, 
PRINCIP
AL 
OFFICE
RS 
& 
COMPLI
ANCE 
OFFICE
RS 
[WHEN 
NOT IN 
II, IV-
VII] 
 
 (III) 
SECTION 
15B AND 
15F OF 
SEBI 
ACT 
& 
SIMILAR 
DEFAULTS 
(INCLUDI
NG 
PROMOTE
RS AND 
PRINCIPA
L 
OFFICERS 
IN  CASES 
RELATING 
TO JOINT 
LIABILITY 
WITH THE 
INTERME
FAILURE 
IN 
REDRESSI
NG 
INVESTOR 
GRIEVAN
CES 
(INCLUDI
NG 
PROMOTE
RS AND 
PRINCIPA
L 
OFFICERS 
IN  CASES 
RELATING 
TO JOINT 
LIABILITY 
WITH THE 
INTERME
DIARY/ 
ISSUER)  
MARKET 
INFRASTRU
CTURE 
INSTITUTIO
NS 
(INCLUDIN
G 
PROMOTER
S AND 
PRINCIPAL 
OFFICERS 
IN  CASES 
RELATING 
TO JOINT 
LIABILITY 
WITH THE 
INSTITUTIO
N) 
(VI) 
FUND 
RELATED 
DEFAULT
S 
(INCLUDI
NG 
PROMOT
ERS AND 
PRINCIP
AL 
OFFICER
S IN 
CASES 
RELATIN
G TO 
JOINT 
LIABILIT
Y WITH 
THE 
FUND) 
(VII)

[Page 56]
56 
 
                                                           
THE 
BODY 
CORPO
RATE 
/FIRM) 
(II) 
DIARY) 
(IV) 
(V) 
 
(FOR 
DELAY 
REDUCE 
TO 1/4)   
BA WHERE: 
DEFAULT 
RELATES TO 
FUTP OR IT,  
FALSE/ 
MISLEADING/ 
INCORRECT/INC
OMPLETE 
DISCLOSURES IN 
OFFER 
DOCUMENTS,  
 
FAILURE BY 
MARKET 
INFRASTRUCTU
RE 
INSTITUTIONS 
TO CONDUCT 
BUSINESS IN THE 
REQUIRED 
MANNER,  
 
 A RECKLESS 
VIOLATION,  
 
 OR  
 
A 
DISGORGEMENT
/REFUND IN 
EXCESS OF 
RUPEES 1 CRORE 
(M) 
RUPEES 
15 
LAKHS 
RUPEES 
1 
CRORES 
RUPEES 
45 
LAKHS 
RUPEES 
15 LAKHS 
RUPEES 
30 LAKHS 
RUPEES 5 
CRORES 
RUPEES 
33 
LAKHS  
 
OR 
 
0.01% OF 
THE 
AVERAGE 
ASSET 
UNDER 
MANAGE
MENT, AT 
TIME OF 
VIOLATIO
N  
 
OR 
 
0.5% OF 
THE 
AVERAGE 
NET 
WORTH, 
AT TIME 
OF 
VIOLATIO
N,  
 
WHICHEV
ER IS 
HIGHER 
BENCHMARK 
WHERE VIOLATION 
INVOLVED AT (M) 
AND, - 
SUCH VIOLATION 
DIRECTLY OR 
INDIRECTLY – 
 
(I)  RESULTED IN 
SUBSTANTIAL 
LOSSES TO OTHER 
PERSONS,  
 
(II) CREATED A 
SIGNIFICANT RISK 
OF SUBSTANTIAL 
LOSSES TO OTHER 
PERSONS,  OR 
 
RUPEES 
60 
LAKHS 
RUPEES 
3 
CRORES 
RUPEES 
2 
CRORES 
RUPEES 
60 LAKHS 
RUPEES 
80 LAKHS 
RUPEES 10 
CRORES 
RUPEES 
60 LAKHS  
 
OR 
 
0.05% OF 
THE 
AVERAGE 
ASSET 
UNDER 
MANAGE
MENT, AT 
TIME OF 
VIOLATIO
N  
 
OR 
 
0.75% OF 
THE

[Page 57]
57 
 
                                                           
(III) AFFECTED THE 
INTEGRITY OF THE 
SECURITIES 
MARKETS (N) 
AVERAGE 
NET 
WORTH, 
AT TIME 
OF 
VIOLATIO
N,  
WHICHEV
ER IS 
 HIGHER 
RESIDUARY (O) RUPEES 
3 LAKHS 
RUPEES 
15 
LAKHS 
RUPEES 
10 
LAKHS 
RUPEES 3 
LAKHS 
RUPEES 6 
LAKHS 
RUPEES 3 
CRORES 
RUPEES 
15 
LAKHS  
 
OR 
 
0.001% 
OF THE 
AVERAGE 
ASSET 
UNDER 
MANAGE
MENT, AT 
TIME OF 
VIOLATIO
N  
 
OR 
 
0.05% OF 
THE 
AVERAGE 
NET 
WORTH, 
AT TIME 
OF 
VIOLATIO
N,  
 
WHICHEV
ER IS 
HIGHER”]
43 
 
 
Note to Table X:  
1. In case of applicability of more than one BA, the highest is to be considered.  
2. In this Schedule, ‘Principal Officer’ means a person that may be covered under Section 27 of the 
SEBI Act, as amended by the Finance Act, 2018. 
3. ‘Fund’ means an AIF, MF, CIS, and any other pooling arrangement required to be registered with 
the Board. 
‘Body corporate’ in (II) of this Table includes, any applicant not covered in (I) and (III) to (VII).  ”

[Page 58]
58 
 
RESIDUARY BASE AMOUNT, FOR EACH UNIT OF ALLEGED DEFAULT FOR EACH 
APPLICANT OR ON JOINT LIABILITY BASIS 
(AS PER THE SUM OF APPLICABLE AMOUNTS IN CASE OF JOINT APPLICANTS) 
BASE AMOUNT 
WHERE: 
NAME 
LENDERS# 
 
 
 
 
(I) 
BODY 
CORPORATES 
& 
INDIVIDUALS  
(WHEN NOT 
IN I, III-V) 
(II) 
INTERMEDIARY 
INCLUDING 
PRINCIPAL 
OFFICERS  
 
 
 (III) 
MARKET 
INFRASTRUCTURE 
INSTITUTIONS 
INCLUDING 
PRINCIPAL 
OFFICERS  
(IV) 
FUND 
RELATED 
DEFAULTS 
INCLUDING 
PRINCIPAL 
OFFICERS  
(V) 
DEFAULTS RELATE 
TO FUTP OR IT,  
FALSE/ 
MISLEADING/ 
INCORRECT/ 
INCOMPLETE 
DISCLOSURES IN 
OFFER 
DOCUMENTS,  
OR 
FAILURE BY 
MARKET 
INFRASTRUCTURE 
INSTITUTIONS TO 
CONDUCT 
BUSINESS IN THE 
REQUIRED 
MANNER,  
(M) 
RUPEES 10 
LAKHS 
 
RUPEES 40 
LAKHS 
 
RUPEES 20 
LAKHS 
 
RUPEES 2 CRORE 
 
RUPEES 40 
LAKHS  
 
 
VIOLATION INVOLVED 
AT (M) IS APPLICABLE 
AND, - 
RUPEES 20 
LAKHS 
 
 
RUPEES 1 
CRORE 
 
RUPEES 30 
LAKHS 
 
RUPEES 4 CRORES 
 
RUPEES 75 
LAKHS

[Page 59]
59 
 
RESIDUARY BASE AMOUNT, FOR EACH UNIT OF ALLEGED DEFAULT FOR EACH 
APPLICANT OR ON JOINT LIABILITY BASIS 
(AS PER THE SUM OF APPLICABLE AMOUNTS IN CASE OF JOINT APPLICANTS) 
BASE AMOUNT 
WHERE: 
NAME 
LENDERS# 
 
 
 
 
(I) 
BODY 
CORPORATES 
& 
INDIVIDUALS  
(WHEN NOT 
IN I, III-V) 
(II) 
INTERMEDIARY 
INCLUDING 
PRINCIPAL 
OFFICERS  
 
 
 (III) 
MARKET 
INFRASTRUCTURE 
INSTITUTIONS 
INCLUDING 
PRINCIPAL 
OFFICERS  
(IV) 
FUND 
RELATED 
DEFAULTS 
INCLUDING 
PRINCIPAL 
OFFICERS  
(V) 
SUCH VIOLATION 
DIRECTLY OR 
INDIRECTLY – 
(I) RESULTED IN 
SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES 
TO OTHER PERSONS,  
OR 
(II) CREATED 
SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES 
OR A SIGNIFICANT RIS K 
OF LOSSES TO OTHER 
PERSONS 
OR 
(III) AFFECTED THE 
INTEGRITY OF THE 
SECURITIES MARKETS 
 (N)## 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DELAY IN REDRESSING 
INVESTOR GRIEVANCES 
(O) 
- RUPEES 3 
LAKHS 
 
RUPEES 5 LAKHS 
 
RUPEES 7 LAKHS 
 
RUPEES 10 
LAKHS

[Page 60]
60 
 
RESIDUARY BASE AMOUNT, FOR EACH UNIT OF ALLEGED DEFAULT FOR EACH 
APPLICANT OR ON JOINT LIABILITY BASIS 
(AS PER THE SUM OF APPLICABLE AMOUNTS IN CASE OF JOINT APPLICANTS) 
BASE AMOUNT 
WHERE: 
NAME 
LENDERS# 
 
 
 
 
(I) 
BODY 
CORPORATES 
& 
INDIVIDUALS  
(WHEN NOT 
IN I, III-V) 
(II) 
INTERMEDIARY 
INCLUDING 
PRINCIPAL 
OFFICERS  
 
 
 (III) 
MARKET 
INFRASTRUCTURE 
INSTITUTIONS 
INCLUDING 
PRINCIPAL 
OFFICERS  
(IV) 
FUND 
RELATED 
DEFAULTS 
INCLUDING 
PRINCIPAL 
OFFICERS  
(V) 
RESIDUARY (P) 
 
RUPEES 3 
LAKHS 
RUPEES 10 
LAKHS 
RUPEES 10 
LAKHS 
RUPEES 1 CRORE 
 
RUPEES 15 
LAKHS  
 
 
#Name Lenders include individual applicants who submit to the satisfaction of the IC or 
HPAC or Panel of WTMs that, without knowledge of the illegal activity, he/she was involved 
in the violation to the extent of permitting/lending the use of his/her securities account or 
name or facility to the key operator or core entities or intermediary or securities market 
infrastructure institution involved in such activity. In addition, name lenders will also include 
individuals who are identified as such either in the investigation report or in the show cause 
notice or in the order of the Adjudicating Officer/SEBI/Court/Tribunal. While arriving at the 
settlement terms, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may take into consideration any relevant 
factor as may be submitted by the applicant including the annual income of the applicant, the 
past and present trading pattern, including the frequency and quantum of trades. 
 
##Serious violations may also result in additional terms such as disgorgement of management 
fee or any other terms as may be decided by the IC, HPAC or the Panel of WTMs. 
 
 
Note to Table X: 
 
1. In case of applicability of more than one BA, the highest is to be considered.

[Page 61]
61 
 
2. In this Schedule, ‘Principal Officer’ means a person that may be covered under 
Section 27 of the Act as amended by the Finance Act, 2018.  
3. ‘Fund’ means an Alternative Investment Fund (AIF), Mutual Fund (MF), Collective 
Investment Scheme (CIS) and any other  pooling arrangement required to be 
registered with the Board. 
4. Body Corporate in (II) in this Table includes, any applicant not covered in (I) and 
(III) to (V).] 
 
 
CHAPTER VII 
 
REPETITIVE NATURE OF DEFAULT 
 
 
I. The counts of defaults may be selected using one or more or a combination of the 
methods indicated in this Chapter.  
Explanation. - Different methods may be used in respect of different persons in the 
same cause of action as may be required for arriving at a reasonable IA. 
 
II. In general, the unit of alleged default may be selected from either of, or a combination 
of, the following, - 
i. the (approx.) number of purchase or sale transaction, 
ii. the (approx.) number of individual deceptions attempted,  
iii. the (approx.) number of investors involved, or 
iv. ‘Course of conduct’ standard 
-whereby each counts amounts to a complete violation. Discretion may be used to apply 
a different standard that is less prejudicial to a person after taking into account the 
interest of the investors in securities:  
 
Provided that, where a large number of counts of a default are noted, for arriving at a 
reasonable IA a less prejudicial standard of selecting the unit of default may be applied.  
 
Explanation. - In respect of a default relating to a report or statement, -

[Page 62]
62 
 
i. each person to whom a misleading report was sent or statement made may 
involve a separate “act”; 
ii. each distinct misleading report or statement made may be a separate “act”;  
iii. each distinct misleading statement within a report may be a separate “act”;  
iv. the course of conduct standard in respect of all or any such reports or statements; 
or  
v. a combination of i, ii, iii and iv above. 
 
 
III. Course of Conduct standard: Depending on the facts and circumstances of a case, for 
the purpose of arriving at a reasonable IA, “course of conduct” standard in which 
multiple counts of a violation are aggregated and counted as a single violation for 
purposes of calculating IA may be applied.  
 
Explanation 1. - It may be reasonable to aggregate multiple counts of a default if, - 
(a) the conduct did not involve manipulative, fraudulent or deceptive intent or 
insider trading, except where the recommended IA would otherwise be extremely 
disproportionate to the conduct;  
Explanation. – “disproportionate” and “reasonable” refer to the appropriateness 
vis-à-vis the deterrence sought to be achieved and not appropriateness vis -à-vis 
the illegal profit made by the applicant or loss caused to investors. 
 
(b) the conduct did not result in substantial injury to the rights of public investors, 
or if restitution was made in such cases; and 
(c) the violations resulted from a systemic problem or cause that has been 
corrected.  
 
Explanation 2. – Depending on the facts and circumstances, the units of violation may 
be based on how long the violations continued, however no uniformity of the period of 
time (daily, weekly, fortnightly, monthly, yearly) is required. The multiple counts of 
violation acts may be combined into one or more than one course of conduct. 
 
 
*****************

[Page 63]
63 
 
Schedule III 
 
Part-A 
(See regulation 16) 
 
Format 
 
To     Date 
……. 
Address  
  
Sub: Notice of summary settlement in the matter of ..................................... 
 
During the course of investigation/ inspection/ inquiry/ audit in the matter of 
……………………………………………. the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI) has prima facie observed that you have violated the following provisions of the 
securities laws:  
(i) ………….. 
(ii) ………….. 
(iii) ………….. 
(iv) ………….. 
Extracts of the findings are enclosed. 
 
2. In view of the aforesaid, probable proceedings against you under…. (relevant 
provisions under which the proceedings may be initiated or continued)  may be 
initiated or continued . 
 
3. Notwithstanding anything contained in this notice, the Board reserves the right to 
modify the proceedings and charges to be brought against you and this notice shall not 
confer any right to seek settlement or avoid any action initiated by the Board. 
 
4. Subject to Regulation  5 of the SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 the 
aforesaid proceedings to be initiated may be settled and disposed of upon filing of a 
settlement application under Chapter -II of the SEBI (Settlement Proceedings)

[Page 64]
64 
 
Regulations, 2018 upon remittan ce of a settlement amount of Rs. …………..to SEBI 
in terms of ….. ………………… (provision) of SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) 
Regulations, 2018 within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of this notice and 
upon complying with the following non-monetary terms (if applicable): 
(i) . ………………… 
(ii) ......................…… (please specify any other terms) 
 
 
5. In case the settlement application is not filed or the settlement amount is not 
remitted and/or undertaking in respect of other non -monetary terms is not 
furnished or other non-monetary terms are not complied with to the satisfaction 
of the Board or the settlement application is withdrawn, the specified proceedings 
may be initiated or continued, as the case may be and you shall be permitted to 
file a settlement ap plication only at the next stage in respect of proceedings 
pending before a Court or a tribunal, after conclusion of proceedings before the 
Adjudicating Officer or the Board, as the case may be.  
 
Name, designation and signature  
 
Encl: As above 
 
 
44[***] 
                                                           
44 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020 w.e.f. 22.07.2020. Before the omission, the words read as under: 
“ 
Part-B 
(See regulation 18) 
 
Format 
 
To     Date 
……. 
Address  
  
Sub: Notice of settlement in the matter of ..................................... 
 
During the course of investigation/ inspection/ inquiry/ audit in the matter of 
……………………………………………. the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has prima 
facie observed that you have violated the following provisions of the securities laws:  
(i) …………..

[Page 65]
65 
 
SCHEDULE IV 
(see Regulation 19) 
 
Application for confidentiality  
 
 
1. The application for confidentiality shall be in the format convenient to the applicant 
and shall inter-alia, include the following, -  
 
i. name and address of the applicant or its authorized representative as well as of 
all other known participants involved in the alleged default;  
ii. the address of the applicant for communication including the telephone numbers 
and the e- mail address, etc.;  
iii. a detailed description of the alleged arrangement, in cluding its aims and 
objectives and the details of activities and functions carried out for securing such 
aims and objectives;  
iv. the commencement and duration of the default;  
v. the names, positions, office locations and, wherever necessary, home addresses 
of all persons who, in the knowledge of the applicant, are or have been 
                                                           
(ii) ………….. 
(iii) ………….. 
(iv) ………….. 
Extracts of the findings are enclosed. 
 
2. In view of the aforesaid, probable proceedings against you under…. (relevant provisions under which 
the proceedings may be initiated or continued) may be initiated or continued. 
 
3. Notwithstanding anything contained in this notice, the Board reserves the right to modify the proceedings 
and charges to be brought against you and this notice shall not confer any right to seek settl ement or 
avoid any action initiated by the Board. 
 
4. Subject to regulation 5 of the SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018, the aforesaid 
proceedings to be initiated may, be settled and disposed of upon filing of a settlement application under 
Chapter-II of the SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 within 15 calendar days from the 
date of receipt of this notice. 
 
5. If the settlement application is not filed, the Board may initiate any proceedings against you in 
accordance with law and you sha ll be permitted to file a settlement application only at the next 
stage in respect of proceedings pending before a Court or a tribunal, after conclusion of 
proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer or the Board, as the case may be.  
 
Name, designation and signature  
 
Encl: As above”

[Page 66]
66 
 
associated with the alleged defaulters, including those persons who have been 
involved on behalf of the applicant;  
vi. the details of other authorities, forums or courts, if any, that have been 
approached or are intended to be approached in relation to the alleged violation;  
vii. a descriptive list of evidence regarding the nature and content of evidence 
provided in support of the application for confidentiality; and  
viii. any other material information as may be directed by the Board.  
 
(Signature of the applicant) 
(Stamp and Seal of body corporate applicant) 
 
 
 
Verification 
I, ………………………………………………son/daughter/wife of (Name in block 
letters) 
Shri …………………………………..being the applicant/authorised representative (in 
case of body corporate) of ……………………. do hereby verify and affirm on oath that 
this application and the contents thereof are true to my knowledge and belief and as per 
the records and that I have not suppressed any ma terial facts and shall keep the Board 
informed without delay, of any other relevant information that may come to my notice. 
(Signature of the applicant) 
Date: 
Place :  
 
 
2. The undertaking and waiver as specified in Part C of Schedule-I shall be annexed to the 
application for confidentiality.  
 
Sd/- 
AJAY TYAGI 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

[Page 67]
67 
 
Note:  
 
1. The Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 
2018 was published in the Gazette of India on November 30, 2018 vide notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/ 2018/48. 
 
2. The Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 
2018 was amended on - 
 
a) 22 nd July 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 
Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2020/24. 
 
b) 14th January, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 
Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2022/62. 
 
c)17th January, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 
Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2023/118. 
 
d) 28th November, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Attestation 
of Documents) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2024/212. 
 
 
*** 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations.]
