[Page 1]
Page 1 of 46 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(DELISTING OF EQUITY SHARES) REGULATIONS, 2021 
[Amended upto September 3, 2025] 
 
No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021-25 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 31 read 
with section 21A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956)  and section 
30, sub -section (1) of section 11 and sub -section (2) of section 11A of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes the following 
regulations, namely: - 
 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement 
1. (1) These regulations shall be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
Definitions  
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
bear the meaning assigned to them below and their cognate expressions and variations shall 
be construed accordingly,-   
a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
b) “acquirer” includes  a person -  
(i) who decides to make an offer for delisting of equity shares of the company along 
with the persons acting in concert in accordance with regulation 5A of the 
Takeover Regulations as amended from time to time ; or  
(ii) who is the promoter or part of the promoter group along with the persons acting 
in concert.  
c) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 
of the Act; 
d) “bidding period” means the period within which shareholders may tende r their shares 
in acceptance of the offer for delisting of equity shares of the company made under 
these regulations;  
e) “control” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Takeover Regulations 
as amended from time to time;  
f) “company” means a c ompany within the meaning of sub -section (20) of section 2 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and includes a body corporate or corporation

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 46 
 
established under any enactment for the time being in force, whose equity shares are 
listed on a recognised stock exchange; 
g) “compulsory delisting” means delisting of equity shares of a company by a recognised 
stock exchange under Chapter V of these regulations;  
h) "Company Secretary in practice" means a Company Secretary as defined in section 2(c) 
of the Company Secre taries Act, 1980 (56 of 1980) who is deemed to be in practice 
under sub-section (2) of section 2 of the said Act; 
i) “detailed public announcement” means the announcement made by the acquirer in 
terms of regulation 15 read with Schedule I of these regulations;  
j) “delisting” means permanent removal of equity shares of the company from the trading 
platform of a recognised stock exchange, either by way of voluntary or compulsory 
method;  
k) “delisting period” means the period between the date of initial public announcement 
and the  date  of payment  of consideration  to the  shareholders, whose shares have 
been accepted in the reverse book building process or the date on which shares have 
been returned upon failure of the delisting offer, as the case may be; 
l) "discovered price" means the price discovered through reverse book building process 
in terms of Schedule II of these Regulations; 
1[la) “fixed delisting price” means the fixed price offered by the acquirer for  undertaking 
delisting of the equity shares of the company through fixed price process;] 
m) 2[“floor price” means the minimum price offered by the acquirer in terms of regulation 
19A of these regulations, while making the proposal for voluntarily  delisting of th e 
equity shares of the company;] 
n) “frequently tr aded shares” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the 
Takeover Regulations as amended from time to time; 
o) "indicative price" means the price offered by the acquirer, which is higher than the floor 
price, while making the proposal to voluntarily delist the equity shares of the company; 
p) “innovators growth platform” shall have the same meaning as  assigned to it under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018 as amended from time to time; 
q) “initial public announcement” means the first announcement, including subsequent 
modifications thereto, if any, made by the acquirer to express its intention to voluntarily 
delist the equity shares of the company from all the recognised stock exchanges. 
                                                           
1 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. The provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 shall be applicable to such delisting offers whose initial public announcement is 
made on or after the date  of coming into force of the said amendment r egulations, i.e., 25.09.2024. An acquirer 
may make the delisting offer in terms of the provisions of the Se curities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 as they existed before the  coming into force of Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 till the sixtieth day from 25.09.2024. 
2 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. Before the substitution, the clause read as under -  
“m) "floor price" means the minimum price offered by the acquirer, c omputed in accordance with 
regulation 8 of the Takeover Regulations as amended from time to time, while making the proposal for 
voluntarily delisting of the equity shares of the company;”

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 46 
 
r) “Insolvency Code” means the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (31 of 2016); 
3[ra) “Investment Holding Company” means a company which holds investments in listed 
or unlisted companies or holding assets other than such investments;] 
s) "Peer Review Company Secretary" means a Company Secretary in practice, who is 
either practicing individually or as a sole proprietor or as a partner of a Peer Reviewed 
Practice Unit , holding a valid  certificate of peer  review  issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India; 
t) “public shareholding” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under rule 2(e) of 
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 as amended from time to time and 
“public shareholders” shall be construed accordingly; 
u) “persons acting in concert” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the 
Takeover Regulations as amended from time to time;  
v)  “promoter” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018 as amended from time to time; 
w) “promoter group” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018 as amended from time to time; 
x) “recognised stock exchange” means any stock exchange that has been granted 
recognition under section 4 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) 
as amended from time to time; 
y) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to these regulations; 
z) "securities laws" mean the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 
1956), the Depositories Act,1996 (22 of 1996), the relevant provisions of any other law 
to the extent it is administered by the Board and the relevant rules and regulations made 
thereunder; 
aa) “Takeover Regulations” mean the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
bb)  “voluntary delisting” means the delisting of equity shares of a company voluntarily on 
an application made by it under Chapter III of these regulations; 
cc) “valuer” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under section 247 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) as amended from time to time;  
dd) “volume weighted average price” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under 
the Takeover Regulations as amended from time to time; 
ee) “working days” means the working days of the Board. 
(2) All  other  words  and  expressions  used  but  not  defined  in  these  regulations,  but  
defined  in the  Act  or  the  Companies  Act,  2013 (18 of 2013),  the  Securities  Contracts  
(Regulation)  Act,  1956 (42 of 1956),  the Depositories  Act,  1996 (22 of 1996)  and/or  the  
rules  and  regulations made thereunder, shall have the same meaning as respectively assigned 
                                                           
3 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024.

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 46 
 
to them in such Acts or rules or regulations or any statutory modification or re -enactment 
thereto, as the case may be.

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 46 
 
CHAPTER II 
DELISTING OF EQUITY SHARES 
Scope and applicability  
3. (1) These regulations shall apply to delisting of equity shares of a company including 
equity shares having superior voting rights from all or any of the recognised stock exchanges 
where such shares are listed. 
(2) Nothing contained in these regulations shall apply to the delisting of equity shares of a listed 
company— 
(a) that have been listed and traded on the innovators growth platform of a recognised stock 
exchange without making a public issue;  
(b) made pursuant to a resolution plan approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code, 
if such plan provides for:  
(i) delisting of such shares; or  
(ii) an exit opportunity to the existing public shareholders at a specified price:   
Provided that the existing public shareholders shall be provided the exit opportunity at a 
price which shall not be less than the price, by whatever name called, at which a promoter 
or any entity belonging to the promoter group or any other shareholder, directly or 
indirectly, is provided an exit opportunity: 
Provided further that the details of delisting of such shares along with the justification for 
the exit price in respect of the proposed delisting shall be disclosed to the recognized stock 
exchange(s) where the shares are listed within one day of approval of the resolution plan 
under section 31 of the Insolvency Code. 
Conditions for delisting  
4. (1) Neither any company shall apply for nor any recognised stock exchange shall permit 
delisting of equity shares of a company:- 
(a) unless a period of three years has elapsed since the listing of that class of equity 
shares on any recognised stock exchange;  
(b) if any instrument issued by the company, which is convertible into the same class 
of equity share(s) that is sought to be delisted, is outstanding; 
(c) pursuant to a buyback of equity shares by the company, including a buyback 
pursuant to consolidation or division of all or part of the equity share capital of the

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 46 
 
company, unless a period of six months has elapsed from the date of completion of such 
buyback;  
(d) pursuant to a preferential allotment made by the company unless a period of six 
months has elapsed from the date of such allotment: 
Provided that nothing contained under clause (d) of sub -regulation (1) shall be 
applicable to the delisting of equity shares made by a new acquirer(s) who has made an 
offer under regulation 5A of the Takeover Regulations or a new promoter(s) pursuant 
to re-classification in terms of the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
(2) No acquirer shall propose delisting of equity shares of a company, if the acquirer had sold 
the equity shares of the company during the period of six months prior to the date of the initial 
public announcement made in terms of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8 of these regulations.  
(3) Nothing contained in clauses (a) and (b) of sub -regulation (1) shall apply to a delisting of 
equity shares falling under regulation 5 of these regulations. 
(4) No acquirer shall, directly or indirectly, employ the funds of the company to finance an exit 
opportunity provided under Chapter IV of these regulations or an acquisition of shares made 
pursuant to sub-regulation (4) of regulation 33 of these regulations. 
(5) No acquirer shall, directly or indirectly,– 
(a) employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud any shareholder or other person; 
or 
(b) engage in any transaction or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any 
shareholder or other person; or 
(c) engage in any act or practice that is fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative – 
in connection with any delisting of equity shares sought or permitted or exit opportunity 
given or other acquisition of equity shares made under these regulations. 
CHAPTER III 
VOLUNTARY DELISTING  
PART – A 
Conditions and procedure for delisting where exit opportunity is not required 
Delisting from some of the recognised stock exchanges 
5. A company may delist its equity shares from one or more of the recognised stock 
exchanges on which it is listed without providing an exit opportunity to the public shareholders,

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 46 
 
if after the proposed delisting, the equity shares remain listed on any recognised stock exchange 
that has nationwide trading terminals.   
Procedure for delisting where no exit opportunity is required 
6. (1) Any company desirous of delisting its equity shar es under the provisions of 
regulation 5 of these regulations shall -   
(a)  obtain the prior approval of its Board of Directors;  
(b) make an application to the relevant recognised stock exchange(s) for delisting its equity 
shares;  
(c) issue a public noti ce of the proposed delisting from the relevant  stock exchange(s) in 
at least one English national newspaper with wide circulation, one Hindi national 
newspaper with wide circulation in their all India editions and one vernacular newspaper 
of the region where the relevant stock exchange(s) is located;  
(d) disclose the fact of delisting in its first annual report post delisting. 
(2) The public notice issued under clause (c) of sub -regulation (1) shall mention the name(s) 
of the recognised stock exchange(s) from which the equity shares of the company are intended 
to be delisted, the reasons for such delisting and the fact of continuation of listing of equity 
shares on the recognised stock exchange(s) having nationwide trading terminals. 
(3) An application for delisting made under clause (b) of sub -regulation (1) shall be disposed 
of by the recognised stock exchange(s) within a period not exceeding thirty working days from 
the date of receipt of such application that is complete in all respects. 
PART – B 
Conditions and procedure for delisting where exit opportunity is required 
Delisting from all the recognised stock exchanges 
7.  The equity shares of a company may be delisted from all the recognised stock 
exchanges having nationwide trading terminals on which  they are listed, after an exit 
opportunity has been provided by the acquirer to all the public shareholders holding the equity 
shares sought to be delisted, in accordance with Chapter IV of these regulations and after 
following the procedure as mentioned in Part-B of this Chapter. 
Initial public announcement 
8. (1)  On the date when the acquirer(s) decides to voluntarily delist the equity shares of 
the company, it shall make an initial public announcement to all the stock exchanges on which 
the shares of the company are listed and the stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate the 
same to the public.

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 46 
 
 (2) A  copy  of  the initial public  announcement  shall  also be  sent  to  the   company  at  its  
registered  office not later than one working day  from  t he  date  of  the initial public 
announcement. 
 (3) The initial public announcement shall contain such information as may be specified, 
including:—  
(a) the reasons for delisting;  
(b) an undertaking with respect to compliance with sub -regulations (2) and (5) of 
regulation 4 of these regulations. 
(4) The initial public announcement shall not omit any relevant information or contain any 
misleading information.  
Appointment of the Manager to the offer 
9. (1) Prior to making an initial public announcement, the ac quirer shall appoint a 
merchant banker registered with the Board as the Manager to the offer. 
(2) The Manager to the offer appointed under sub-regulation (1) shall not be an associate of the 
acquirer.  
(3) The initial public announcement and the subsequent  activities as required under these 
regulations shall be undertaken by the acquirer through the Manager to the offer. 
Approval by the Board of Directors   
10. (1) The company shall obtain the approval of its Board of Directors in respect of the 
proposal of the acquirer to delist the equity shares of the company, not later than twenty one 
days from the date of the initial public announcement. 
(2) The Board of Directors of the company, before considering the proposal of delisting, shall 
appoint a Peer Review Comp any Secretary and provide the following information to such 
Company Secretary for carrying out due-diligence: - 
(a) the details of buying, selling and dealing in the equity shares of the company by the 
acquirer or its related entities during the period of two years prior to the date of board 
meeting held to consider the proposal for delisting, including the details of the top 
twenty five shareholders, for the said period; 
(b) the details of off-market transactions of all the shareholders mentioned in clause (a) 
for a period of two years;  
(c) any additional information, including the information mentioned in clauses (a) and 
(b) for a longer period of time, s ought by the Company Secretary i f the Company 
Secretary is of the opinion that the information provided under clauses (a) and (b) is  
not sufficient for providing the certification in terms of sub-regulation (3).

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 46 
 
(3) After obtaining the information from the Board of Directors of the company under sub -
regulation 2, the Company Secretary shall carry o ut the due-diligence and submit a report to 
the Board of Directors of the company certifying that the buying, selling and dealing in the 
equity shares of the company carried out by the acquirer or its related entities and the top twenty 
five shareholders is in compliance with the applicable provisions of securities laws including 
compliance with sub-regulation (5)  of regulation 4 of these regulations.  
(4)  The  Board  of  Directors  of  the  company,  while  considering the proposal  for delisting, 
shall certify that— 
(a) the  company  is  in  compliance  with  the  applicable  provisions  of securities laws; 
(b) the acquirer and its related entities are in compliance with the applicable  provisions  
of securities laws in terms of the report of the Company Secretary including compliance 
with sub-regulation (5) of regulation 4 of these regulations; 
(c)  the delisting, in their opinion, is in the interest of the shareholders of the company. 
(5) While communicating the decision of the Board of Directors on the  proposal for delisting 
of equity shares, the company shall also submit to the recognized stock exchanges on which 
the equity shares of the company are listed, the due - diligence report of the Company Secretary 
in terms of sub-regulation (3) and the audit report in terms of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 
12 of these regulations. 
(6) Upon receipt of the communication from the company under sub -regulation (5), the stock 
exchanges shall forthwith disseminate the same to the public. 
Approval by shareholders 
11. (1) The company shall obtain the approval of the shareholders through a special 
resolution, not later than forty five days from the date of obtaining the approval of Board of 
Directors.  
(2) The special resolution shall be passed through postal ballot and / or e -voting as per the 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and the rules made thereunder. 
(3) The company shall disclose all material facts in the explanatory statement sent to the 
shareholders in relation to such a resolution.  
(4) The special resolution shall be acted upon only if the votes cast by the public shareholders 
in favour of the proposal are at least two times the number of votes cast by the public 
shareholders against it.  
In-principle approval of the stock exchange    
12.  (1) The company shall make an application to the relevant recognised stock exchange 
for in-principle approval of the proposed delisting of its equity shares in the Form specified by 
the recognised stock exchange from time to time, not later than fifteen w orking days from the

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 46 
 
date of passing of the special resolution or receipt of any other statutory or regulatory approval, 
whichever is later.  
(2) The application seeking in -principle approval for the delisting of equity shares shall be 
accompanied by an audit report as required under regulation 76 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018 in respect of the equity shares 
sought to be delisted, covering a period of six months prior to the date of the application. 
(3) Such application seeking in -principle approval for the delisting of the equity shares shall 
be disposed of by the recognised stock exchange within a period not exceeding, fifteen working 
days from the date of receipt of such application that is complete in all respects. 
(4) The recognised stock exchange shall not unfairly withhold such an application, but may 
require the company to satisfy or inform it as regards - 
(a) compliance with regulations 10 and 11 of these regulations;  
(b) resolution of investor grievances by the company;  
(c) payment of listing fees due to the recognised stock exchange;  
(d) compliance with any provision of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended from 
time to time, that has a material bearing on the interests of its equity shareholders;  
(e) any litigation or action pending against the company pertaining to its activities in 
the securities market or any other matter having a material beari ng on the interests of 
its equity shareholders;  
(f) any other relevant matter as it may deem fit.  
CHAPTER IV 
EXIT OPPORTUNITY 
Applicability of Chapter IV 
13. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the proposal for delisting of equity shares of 
a company from all the recognised stock exchanges. 
Escrow account   
14. 4[(1) The acquirer shall open an interest bearing escrow account with a Scheduled 
Commercial Bank, not later than seven working days from the date of obtaining the  
                                                           
4 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delistin g of Equity Shares) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. Before the substitution, the sub-regulation read as under-

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 46 
 
shareholders’ approval, and deposit therein an amount equivalent to twenty-five percent of 
the total consideration, calculated as below – 
i. in case delisting is proposed through reverse book building process; the total 
consideration shall be calculated on the basis of the number of equity shares outstanding 
with the public shareholders multiplied with the floor price or the indicative price, if 
any given by the acquirer in terms of sub -regulation (4) of regulation 20 of these 
regulations; whichever is higher; 
ii. in case delisting is proposed through the fixed price process; the total consideration 
shall be calculated on the basis of the number of equity shares  outstanding with the 
public shareholders multiplied with the fixed delisting price offered by the acquirer.] 
(2) The acquirer shall enter into a tripartite agreement with the Manager to the offer and the 
Bank for the purpose of opening the escrow account and shall authorize the Manager to the 
offer to operate such account as per the provisions of these regulations.  
5[(3) Before making the detailed public announcement under regulation 15 of these regulations, 
the acquirer shall deposit in the escrow account, the remaining  consideration amount being 
seventy-five percent of the total consideration amount  calculated in terms of sub-regulation 
(1).] 
(4) On determination of the discovered price and making of the public announcement under 
sub-regulation (4) of regulation 17 of these regulations accepting the discovered price, the 
acquirer shall forthwith deposit in the escrow account such additional sum as may be sufficient 
to make up the entire sum due and payable as consideration in respect of equity shares 
outstanding with the public shareholders.  
(5) The escrow account shall consist of either the cash deposited with a Scheduled Commercial 
Bank or a bank guarantee in favour of the Manager to the offer or a combination of both.  
(6) Where the escrow account consists of a deposit with a Scheduled Commercial Bank, the 
acquirer shall, while opening the account, authorize the Manager t o the offer to make fund 
transfers through electronic mode or such other mode permitted by the Reserve Bank of India,  
and to instruct the bank to issue banker’s cheques or demand drafts for the amount lying to the 
credit of the escrow account, for the purpose(s) mentioned in these regulations, and the amount 
                                                           
“(1) The acquirer shall open an interest bearing escrow account with a Scheduled Commercial Bank, not 
later than seven working days from the date of obtaining the shareholders’ approval, and deposit therein 
an amount equivalent to twenty f ive percent of the total consideration, calculated on the basis of the 
number of equity shares outstanding with the public shareholders multiplied with the floor price or the 
indicative price, if any given by the acquirer in terms of sub -regulation (4) of regulation 20 of these 
regulations, whichever is higher.” 
5 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delistin g of Equity Shares) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. Before the substitution, the sub-regulation read as under-  
“(3)  Before making the detailed public announcement under regulation 15 of these regulations, the 
acquirer shall deposit in the escrow account, the remaining consideration amount being seventy five 
percent calculated on the basis of the number of equity s hares outstanding with the public shareholders 
multiplied with the floor price or the indicative price, if any given by the acquirer in terms of sub -
regulation (4) of regulation 20 of these regulations, whichever is higher.”

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 46 
 
in such account, if any, remaining after full payment of consideration for the equity shares 
tendered in the delisting offer and those tendered under sub -regulation (1) of regulation 26 of 
these regulations shall be released to the acquirer. 
 (7) Where the escrow account consists of a bank guarantee, such bank guarantee shall be valid 
till payments are made in respect of all shares tendered under sub -regulation (1) of regulation 
26 of these regulations. 
(8) In case of failure of the delisting offer, ninety nine percent of the amount lying in the escrow 
account shall be released to the acquirer within one working day from the date of public 
announcement of such failure. 
(9) The remaining one percent amount lying in the escrow account shall be released post return 
of the shares to the public shareholders or confirmation of revocation of lien marked on their 
shares by the Manager to the offer as per the timelines provided in these regulations. 
 
Detailed public announcement  
15. (1) The acquirer shall, within one working day from the date of  receipt of in-principle 
approval for delisting of equity shares from the recognised stock exchange, make a detailed 
public announcement in at least one English national newspa per with wide circulation, one 
Hindi national newspaper with wide circulation in their all India editions and one vernacular 
newspaper of the region where the relevant recognised stock exchange is located.  
(2) The detailed public announcement shall contai n all material information including the 
information specified in Schedule I of these regulations and shall not contain any false or 
misleading statement.  
(3) The detailed public announcement shall also specify a date, being a day not later than  one 
working day from the date of the detailed public announcement, which shall be the ‘specified 
date’ for determining the names of the shareholders to whom the letter of offer shall be sent.   
(4) The detailed public announcement shall be dated and signed by the acquirer.  
Explanation,— If the acquirer is a company, the detailed public announcement shall be dated 
and signed on behalf of the Board of Directors of the company by its Manager or Secretary, if 
any, and by not less than two directors of the company, one of whom shall be the managing 
director where there is one. 
Letter of offer 
16. (1) The acquirer shall dispatch the letter of offer to the public shareholders not later 
than two working days from the date of the  detailed public announcement made under 
regulation 15 of these regulations.

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 46 
 
(2) The letter of offer shall be sent to all public shareholders, holding equity shares of the class 
sought to be delisted, whose names appear on the register of the company or depository as on 
the date specified in the detailed public announcement.  
(3) A copy of the letter of offer shall also be made available on the website s of the company 
and the Manager to the offer for the benefit of the public shareholders.  
(4) The letter of offer shall contain all the disclosures made in the detailed public announcement 
and such other disclosures as may be necessary for the shareholders to take an informed 
decision. 
(5) The public shareholders shall have the right to inspect all the documents as referred in the 
letter of offer and the Manager to the offer shall facilitate the inspection. 
(6) The letter of offer shall be accompanied with a Form for the use of public shareholders for 
the purpose of either creating a lien or tendering the physical shares, as the case may be.  
(7) An eligible public shareholder may participate in the offer for the delisting of equity shares 
and make bids even without receiving the Form or letter of offer and such shareholder may 
tender shares in the manner specified by the Board in this regard. 
Bidding 6[/ tendering] mechanism 
17.  (1) 7[ In case delisting is proposed through the reverse  book building process or through 
fixed price process, the bidding period or the tendering  period, as the case may be, shall 
begin within] seven working days from the date of the  detailed public announcement and 
shall remain open for five working days.  
(2) The acquirer shall facilitate 8[the] tendering of shares by the shareholders and settlement of 
the same, through the stock exchange mechanism as specified by the Board. 
(3) The Manager to the offer shall ensure that the outcome of the reverse book building process 
9[or the fixed price process, as the case may be,] is announced within two hours of the closure 
of the bidding period 10[or the tendering period].   
                                                           
6 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. 
7 Substituted for the words “The bidding period shall start not later than” by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024  
8 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. 
9 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. 
10 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024.

[Page 14]
Page 14 of 46 
 
11[(4) The acquirer through the Manager to the offer shall, within two working days  from the 
closure of the bidding period or the tendering period, make a public announcement in the same 
newspapers in which the detailed public announcement under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 
15 of these regulations was made, of the success or failure of the fixed price delisting process 
or the reverse book building  process and also disclose the discovered price accepted by 
acquirer, in the event of success of the reverse book building process.] 
Manner of tendering shares 
18.  The equity shares shall be tendered/offered by the public shareholders, including by 
way of marking a lien through the stock exchange mechanism, in the manner specified by the 
Board.  
Right of shareholders to participate in the 12[delisting process] 
19. (1) 13[The public] shareholders holding the equity shares of the company, which are 
sought to be delisted, shall be entitled to participate in the  14[fixed price process or in the]  
reverse book building process in the manner specified in Schedule II of these regulations.  
 (2)  The Manager to the issue shall take necessary steps to ensure compliance with sub -
regulation (1).  
(3) Any holder of depository receipts issued on the basis of  15[the] underlying equity shares 
and a custodian keeping custody of such equity shares shall not be entitled to participate in the 
16[delisting] process:  
Provided that any holder of  depository receipts may participate in the 17[delisting] process 
under sub-regulation (1) after converting such depository receipts into equity shares of the 
company that are proposed to be delisted. 
                                                           
11 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delistin g of Equity Shares) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. Before the substitution, the sub-regulation read as under-  
“(4) Within two working days from the closure of the bidding period, the acquirer shall, through the 
Manager to the offer, make a public announcement in the same newspapers in which the detailed public 
announcement under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 15 of these regulations was made, disclosing the 
success or failure of the reverse book building process, along with the discovered price accepted by the 
acquirer in the event of success of the said process.” 
12 Substituted for the words “ reverse book building process ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024  
13 Substituted for the word “Public” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024 
14 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024 
15 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024 
16 Substituted for the words “reverse book building” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of 
Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024 
17 Substituted for the words “reverse book building” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of 
Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024

[Page 15]
Page 15 of 46 
 
18[Floor Price 
19A (1) The floor price of the equity shares proposed to be delisted through reverse book 
building process or through fixed price process, as the case may be, shall not be less than the 
highest of the following: 
(i) volume weighted average price paid or payable for acquisitions by the acquirer along with 
persons acting in concert, during the 52 weeks immediately preceding the reference date; 
(ii) the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition by the acquirer along with persons 
acting in concert during the 26 weeks immediately preceding the reference date; 
(iii) adjusted book value (considering consolidated financials) as determined by an independent 
registered valuer: 
Provided that adjusted book value shall not be applicable in case of delisting of Public 
Sector Undertakings. 
(iv) the volume weighted average market price for a period of 60 trading days immediately 
preceding the reference date on the stock exchange where the maximum trading volume of the 
equity shares is recorded, provided such shares are frequently traded; 
(v) the price determined by an independent registered valuer taking into account valuation 
parameters such as the bo ok value, comparable trading multiples and any other customary 
valuation metrics for valuation of shares of companies in the same industry where the shares 
are not frequently traded. 
Explanation: The adjusted book-value of the company shall be calculated as below – 
A+B+C+D – L, where, 
‘A’ shall be the book value of all the assets (other than jewellery, artistic work, shares & 
securities and immovable property) in the balance sheet as reduced by any amount shown as 
asset including the unamortised amount of d eferred expenditure which does not represent the 
value of any asset; 
‘B’ shall be the price which jewellery and artistic work would fetch if sold in the open market 
on the basis of the valuation report obtained from a registered valuer; 
‘C’ shall be the fair market value of unquoted/infrequently traded shares and securities as  
determined considering the internationally accepted valuation methods by the registered 
valuer. If the shares and securities are quoted and frequently traded on any recognized stock  
exchange, the fair market value of such shares and securities shall be the transaction value as 
recorded in such stock exchange as on the valuation date; 
‘D’ shall be the value adopted or assessed or assessable by any authority of the Government 
for the  purpose of payment of stamp duty in respect of the immovable property. In case 
                                                           
18 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024.

[Page 16]
Page 16 of 46 
 
immovable property is located outside India, market value of the property shall be determined 
by the independent registered valuer; 
‘L’ shall be the book value of liabilities sho wn in the balance sheet, but not including the 
following amounts, namely:— 
 the paid-up capital in respect of equity shares; 
 the amount set apart for payment of dividends on preference shares and equity shares 
where such dividends have not been declared bef ore the date of transfer at a general 
body meeting of the company; 
 reserves and surplus, by whatever name called, even if the resulting figure is negative, 
other than those set apart towards depreciation; 
 any amount representing provisions made for meeting liabilities, other than ascertained 
liabilities; 
 any amount representing contingent liabilities other than arrears of dividends payable 
in respect of cumulative preference shares. 
(2) The reference date for computing the floor price shall be – 
(i) the  date of initial public announcement made by the acquirer, if such an 
announcement was made before the close of market hours; or 
(ii) the trading day next to the date of the initial public announcement, if such an  
announcement was made after the close of market hours or on a non-trading day.] 
 
Discovered price 
20. (1) After fixation of the floor price under 19[in terms of regulation 19A of these 
regulations], the discovered price shall be determined through the reverse book building 
process in the manner specified in Schedule II of these regulations 20[and shall be disclosed] in 
the detailed public announcement and the letter of offer 21[by the Manager of the offer]. 
(2) 22[***]  
(3) 23[***]   
                                                           
19 Substituted for the words  and symbols “sub-regulation (2) ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024 
20 Substituted for the words and symbols “, and the Manager to the offer shall disclose the same” by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024 
21 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. 
22 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. Before the omission, the sub-regulation read as under-  
“(2) The floor price shall be det ermined in ter ms of regulation 8 of Takeover Regulations as may be 
applicable.” 
23 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. Before the omission, the sub-regulation read as under-

[Page 17]
Page 17 of 46 
 
(4)  The acquirer shall have the option to provide an indicative price in respect of the delisting 
offer, which shall be higher than the floor price calculated in terms of 24[regulation 19A of these 
regulations]. 
(5) The acquirer shall also have the option to revise the indicative price upwards before the 
start of the bidding period and the same shall be duly disclosed to the shareholders. 
(6) The acquirer may, if it deems fit, pay a price higher than the discovered price determined 
in terms of sub-regulation (1). 
25[Fixed Delisting Price 
20A (1) In case the acquirer has proposed delisting through fixed price process; the acquirer 
shall provide a fixed delisting price which shall be at least 15 percent more than the floor price 
calculated in terms of regulation 19A. 
(2) The acquirer shall be eligible to undertake delisting through fixed price process only if the 
shares of the company are frequently traded. 
(3) The acquirer shall be bound to accept the equity shares tendered or offered in the delisting 
offer, if the post-offer shareholding of the acquirer along with the shares tendered by the public 
shareholders reaches 90 percent at the fixed delisting price, offered by the acquirer.] 
Minimum number of equity shares to be acquired 
21. An offer made under Ch apter III of these regulations or a counter offer made by the 
acquirer in terms of sub-regulation(4) of regulation 22 of these regulations, as the case may be, 
shall be deemed to be successful if,- 
(a) the post offer shareholding of the acquirer, along with the shares tendered / offered 
by public shareholders accepted as eligible bids at the discovered price  26[or the fixed 
price] or the counter offer price, as the case may be, reaches ninety percent of the total 
issued shares of that class excluding the following: 
(i) shares held by custodian(s) against which depository receipts have been issued 
overseas; 
                                                           
“(3)The reference date for computing the floor price would be the date on wh ich the recognized stock 
exchange(s) was required to be notified of the board meeting in which the delisting propo sal was 
considered and approved.” 
24 Substituted for the words  and symbols “sub-regulation (2) ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024  
25 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. 
26 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024.

[Page 18]
Page 18 of 46 
 
(ii) shares held by a Trust set up  for implementing an Employee Benefit scheme 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) 
Regulations, 2014;  
(iii)shares held by inactive shareholders such as vanishing companies and struck off 
companies, shares transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund’s 
account and shares held in terms of sub -regulation (4) of regulation 39 read with 
Schedule VI of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015: 
Provided that such shareholders shall be certified by the Peer Review Company 
Secretary appointed by the Board of Directors of the company for due-diligence.   
Explanation,— The cut-off date for determination of inactive shareholders shall be 
the date on which the in-principle approval of the Stock Exchange is received, which 
shall be adequately disclosed in the public announcement.  
Option to accept or reject the discovered price or counter offer   
22. (1) The acquirer shall be bound to accept the equity shares tendered or offered in the 
delisting offer, if the discovered price determined through the reverse book building process is 
equal to the floor price or the indicative price, if any, offered by the acquirer.  
(2) The acquirer shall be bound to accept the equity shares, at the indicative price, if any offered 
by the acquirer, even if the price determined through the reverse book building process is higher 
than the floor price but less than the indicative price.  
(3) Nothing contained in sub -regulation (1) and (2) shall apply, if the discovered price  
27[pursuant to reverse book building process] is higher than the indicative price. 
28[(4) In case of delisting through reverse book building process; a counter-offer may be made 
by the acquirer to the public shareholders, provided – 
                                                           
27 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. 
28 Substituted by the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Delistin g of Equity Shares) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. Before the substitution, the sub-regulations (4) and (5) read as under-  
“(4) In case the discovered price is not acceptable to the acquirer, a counter offer may be made by the 
acquirer to the public shareholders within two working days of the closure of bidding period and 
thereafter, the acquirer shall ensure compliance with the provisions of these regulations in accordance 
with the timelines provided in Schedule IV of these regulations. 
(5) The counter offer price shall not be less than the book value of the company as certified by the 
Manager to the offer. 
Explanation, — For the purpose of sub-regulation (5), the book value shall be computed on the basis of 
both consolidated and standalone financial statements of the company as per the latest quarterly financial 
results filed by the company on the recognized stock exchange(s) as on the date of public announcement 
for counter offer, and the higher of the values so computed shall be treated as the book value.”

[Page 19]
Page 19 of 46 
 
i. the post-offer shareholding of the acquirer, along with the shares tendered by  public 
shareholders, is not less than seventy-five percent; and 
ii. not less than fifty percent of the public shareholding has been tendered. 
(4A) The counter-offer in terms of sub -regulation (4) may be made within two working  days 
of the closure of the bidding period and thereafter the acquirer shall ensure  compliance with 
the provisions of these regulations in accordance with the timelines  provided in Schedule IV 
of these regulations. 
(5) The counter offer price shall not be less than the higher of-  
i. volume weighted average price of the shares tendered/offered in the reve rse book 
building process; and 
ii. the indicative price, if any, offered by the acquirer. 
Explanation- If the cumulative shareholding of the acquirer, along with the shares tendered or 
offered by the public shareholders is less than ninety percent; the vol ume weighted average 
price shall be calculated taking into account all the shares tendered or offered and  if the 
cumulative shareholding is equal to or higher than ninety percent, the volume weighted average 
price shall be calculated taking into account the shares tendered or offered up to ninety percent.] 
Failure of the offer  
23. (1) The delisting offer shall be considered to have failed under the following 
circumstances:- 
(a) the minimum number of shares are not tendered / offered as provided under clause (a) 
of  regulation 21 of these regulations.  
Explanation,— If a counter offer has been made by the acquirer in terms of sub -
regulation (4) of regulation 22 of these regulations, the failure of the said counter offer 
shall be considered in accordance with clause (a); or  
(b) the price discovered through the reverse book building process is rejected by the 
acquirer. 
(2) In case of failure of the delisting offer,

[Page 20]
Page 20 of 46 
 
(a) the equity shares 29[tendered or offered under the reverse book building process or the 
fixed price process or the counter-offer, as the case may be, ] in terms of 30[***] these 
regulations 31[***], shall be released- 
(i)  on the date of disclosure of the outcome of the reverse book building process  32[or 
the fixed price process] under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 17 of these regulations if 
the minimum number of shares as provided under clause (a) of  regulation 21 of these 
regulations are not tendered 33[or] offered; 
(ii) on the date of making public announcement for the failure  of the delisting offer 
under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 17 of these regulations if the price discovered 
through the reverse book building process is rejected by the acquirer; 
(iii) in accordance with Schedule IV of these regulations if a counter off er has been 
made by the acquirer: 
Provided that the acquirer shall not be required to return the shares if the offer is made 
pursuant to regulation 5A of Takeover Regulations. 
(b) the expenses relating to the offer for delisting shall be borne by the acquirer. 
(c) the acquirer, whose delisting offer has failed, shall not make another delisting offer until 
the expiry of six months- 
(i)  from the date of disclosure of the outcome of the reverse book building process 34[or 
the fixed price process, as the case m ay be,] under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 17 
of these regulations if the minimum number of shares as provided under clause (a) of  
regulation 21 of these regulations are not tendered / offered; 
(ii) from the date of making public announcement for the failure of the delisting offer 
under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 17 of these regulations if the price discovered 
through the reverse book building process is rejected by the acquirer; 
(iii) from the date of making public announcement for the failure o f counter offer as 
provided under Schedule IV of these regulations. 
                                                           
29 Substituted for the words  and symbol  “tendered / offered ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024  
30 The words “Schedule II or Schedule IV of” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024  
31 The words “as the case may be” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (De listing of Equity 
Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024 
32 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024 
33 Substituted for the symbol “/” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024 
34 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024

[Page 21]
Page 21 of 46 
 
(3) Nothing contained in clause (c) of sub-regulation (2) shall be applicable to the delisting of 
equity shares made by a new promoter(s) pursuant to the re -classification in terms of the 
provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosures 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 or a new acquirer(s) who has made an offer under regulation 
5A of Takeover Regulations.   
Payment upon success of the offer    
24. (1) All the public shareholders, whose bids are accepted, shall be paid the discovered price 
or a higher price, if any, offered by the acquirer in terms of sub-regulation (6) of regulation 
20 of these regulations 35[or fixed price offered by the acquirer in terms of sub-regulation 
(1) of regulation 20A of these  regulations], as stated in the public announcement in the 
following manner - 
(i) In case the discovered price is equal to the floor price or the indicative price as 
provided under regulation 20, or in case the acquirer is bound to accept the equity shares 
in the delisting offer in terms of sub -regulation (2) of regulation 22 36[or in terms of 
fixed price as provided under regulation 20A] of these regulations, the payment shall 
be made through the secondary market settlement mechanism; 
(ii) In case the discovered price or the price, if any, offered by the acquirer in terms of 
sub-regulation (6) of regulation 20 of these regulations, is higher than the floor price or 
the indicative price, as the case may be, the payment shall be made within five working 
days from the date of the public announcement under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 
17 of these regulations. 
(2) The acquirer shall be liable to pay interest at the rate of ten percent per annum to all the 
shareholders, whose bids have been accepted in the delisting offer, if the price payable in terms 
of sub-regulation (1) is not paid to all the shareholders within the time specified thereunder:  
Provided that in case the delay was not attributable to any act or omission of the acquirer or 
was caused due to the circumstances beyond the control of the acquirer, the Board may grant 
waiver from the payment of such interest. 
Final application to the stock exchange after successful delisting 
25. (1) Within five working days from the date of making the payment to the public 
shareholders in terms of regulation 24  of these regulations , the acquirer shall make the final 
application for delisting to the relevant recognised stock exchange(s) in the Form specified by 
such stock exchange(s) from time to time.  
                                                           
35 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024 
36 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024

[Page 22]
Page 22 of 46 
 
(2) The final application for delisting shall be accompanied with necessary details / 
information, as the recognised stock exch ange(s) may require, of having provided the exit 
opportunity in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. 
(3) The final application for delisting shall be disposed of by the recognised stock exchange(s) 
within fifteen working days from the date of receipt of such application that is complete in all 
respects.  
(4) Upon disposal of the final application for delisting by the stock exchange(s) in terms of 
sub-regulation (3), the equity shares of the company shall be permanently delisted from the 
stock exchange(s).   
Right of the remaining public shareholders to tender equity shares 
26.  (1) The remaining public shareholders, whose shares were either not accepted or were 
not tendered at all during the bidding period, shall have a right to tender their equity shares for 
a minimum period of one year from the date of delisting.  
(2) The acquirer shall be under an obligation during such period to accept the shares of the 
remaining public shareholders under sub-regulation (1), at the same price at which the equity 
shares had been delisted. 
(3) The payment of consideration for equity shares accepted under sub -regulation (2) shall be 
made out of the balance amount lying in the escrow account. 
(4) The Manager to the offer shall ensure that the amount lying in the escrow account or the 
bank guarantee shall not be released to the acquirer for a minimum period of one year or till 
the time payment has been made to the remaining public shareholders, whichever is earlier.  
Measures to protect the rights of remaining public shareholders 
27. (1) The Manager to the offer, in coordination with the acquirer shall ensure that the 
rights of the remaining public shareholders are protected and in furtherance of the same shall: 
(a) publish, on a quarterly basis, an advertisement   in  the  same newspapers in which 
the  detailed public  announcement  of  the  offer for delisting of equity shares was  
published, inviting the remaining public shareholders to avail the exit opportunity 
during the one year exit window after delisting of shares;   
(b) send follow up communications to the remaining public shareholders on a  quarterly 
basis; and  
(c) file a quarterly progress report to the stock exchange(s), which shall be disseminated 
to the public thereafter by the stock exchange(s), disclosing the following:  
(i) number of remaining public shareholders at the beginning and end of the 
quarter; and

[Page 23]
Page 23 of 46 
 
(ii) details of public shareholders who availed the exit opportunity during the 
quarter.  
(2) The stock exchange(s) shall monitor the compliance of sub-regulation (1). 
Obligations of the company 
28. (1) Upon  receipt  of  the  detailed  public  announcement,  the  Board  of  Directors of  
the company  shall  constitute  a  Committee  of  independent  directors  to  provide  reasoned 
recommendations  on  the delisting offer. 
(2)  The Committee   of   independent   directors   shall   provide   its   written   reasoned 
recommendations on the proposal for delisting of equity shares to the Board of Directors of the 
company and in relation thereto, the Committee may also seek external professional advice at 
the expense of the company. 
(3) The Committee of independent directors, while providing reasoned recommendations on 
the delisting proposal, shall disclose the voting pattern of the meeting in which the said 
proposal was discussed. 
(4) The company shall  publish such  recommendations of the Committee of independent 
directors, along with the details of the voting pattern, at  least two working days  before  the  
commencement  of  the  bidding  period,  in  the  same ne wspapers in which  the  detailed 
public  announcement  of  the  offer for delisting of equity shares was  published,  and 
simultaneously, a copy of the same shall be sent to the stock exchange(s) and the Manager to 
the offer. 
Obligations of the Manager to the offer 
29. (1) Before making the detailed public announcement, the Manager to the offer for 
delisting of equity shares shall ensure that, —  
(a) the acquirer is able to implement the delisting offer; and  
(b) firm  arrangements for funds through verifiable means have been made by the 
acquirer to meet the payment obligations under the delisting offer. 
(2) The Manager  to  the  offer  shall  ensure  that  the  contents  of  the initial public 
announcement, the detailed public announcement, the  letter  of  offer and  the  post -bidding  
advertisement(s) are complete, true,  fair  and  adequate  in  all  material  aspects, based  on  
reliable  sources and are  in  compliance  with  the  requirements  under these regulati ons and 
other applicable securities laws. 
(3) The Manager to the offer shall ensure that market intermediaries engaged for the purpose 
of the delisting of equity shares are registered with the Board.

[Page 24]
Page 24 of 46 
 
(4) The Manager to the offer shall exercise due dilige nce, care and professional judgment to 
ensure compliance with these regulations. 
(5) The Manager to the offer shall not, either directly or indirectly through its associates, deal 
in its own account in the shares of the company after its appointment as Man ager to the offer 
till the conclusion of the delisting offer.  
(6) It shall be the responsibility of the Manager to the offer to ensure that the acquirer complies 
with the provisions of these regulations. 
Obligations of the acquirer  
30. (1) Prior to making the initial public announcement of the offer for the delisting of 
equity shares under these regulations, the acquirer shall ensure that firm financial arrangements 
have been made for fulfilling the payment obligations under the delisting offer and that the  
acquirer is  able  to  implement  the  delisting offer,  subject  to  any  statutory  approvals  for  
the  delisting offer that may be necessary. 
(2) The acquirer shall ensure that the contents of the initial public announcement, the detailed 
public announcement, the  letter  of  offer and  announcement about success or failure of the 
offer for delisting are  true,  fair and  adequate  in  all  material  aspects,  not  misleading and 
based on reliable sources that shall be mentioned  wherever necessary. 
(3) The acquirer and the persons acting in concert with  it  shall  be  jointly  and  severally 
responsible for the fulfilment of the applicable obligations under these regulations. 
(4) The acquirer shall ensure to acquire the shares offered by the remaining public shareholders 
at the same price at which the equity shares had been delisted for a minimum period of one 
year.  
(5) No acquirer or persons acting in concert with it shall sell shares of the company during the 
delisting period.   
Cancellation of outstanding depository receipts  
31. After delisting of equity shares from all the recognized stock exchanges having 
nationwide trading terminals, the company shall be required to compulsorily cancel all the 
outstanding depository receipts issued overseas and change them into the underlying equity 
shares in the home jurisdiction after termination of the depository receipts program(s), within 
one year of such delisting.  
CHAPTER V 
COMPULSORY DELISTING 
Compulsory delisting by a stock exchange

[Page 25]
Page 25 of 46 
 
32. (1) A recognised stock exchange may, by a reasoned order, delist equity shares of a 
company on any ground prescribed in the rules made under the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956): 
Provided that no order shall be issued under this sub -regulation unless the company has been 
given a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 
(2) The decision regarding the compulsory delisting shall be taken by a panel to be constituted 
by the recognised stock exchange consisting of –  
(a) two directors of the recognised stock exchange one of whom shall be a public 
representative;  
(b) one representative of an investor association recognised by the Board; 
(c) one representative of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or Registrar of Companies; 
and  
(d) the Executive Director or Secretary of the recognised stock exchange. 
(3) Before passing an order under sub-regulation (1), the recognised stock exchange shall give 
a notice in at least one English national newspaper with wide circulation, one Hindi national 
newspaper with wide circulation in their all India editions and one vernacular newspaper of the 
region where the relevant recognised stock exchange is located, of the proposed delisting, 
giving a time period of not less than fifteen working days from the date of such notice, within 
which representations, if any, may be ma de to the recognised stock exchange by any person 
aggrieved by the proposed delisting and shall also display such notice on its trading systems 
and website.  
(4) The recognised stock exchange shall, while passing any order under sub -regulation (1), 
consider the representation, if any, made by the company and also any representation received 
in response to the notice given under sub-regulation (3), and shall comply with the guidelines 
provided in Schedule III of these regulations.  
(5) Where the recognised stock exchange passes an order under sub-regulation (1), it shall, -  
(a) forthwith publish a notice in one English national newspaper with wide circulation, 
one Hindi national newspaper with wide circulation in their all India editions and one 
vernacular newspaper of the region where the relevant recognised stock exchange is 
located, of the fact of such delisting, disclosing therein the name and address of the 
company, the fair value of the delisted equity shares determined under sub -regulation 
(1) of regulation 33 of these regulations and the names and addresses of the promoters 
of the company who would be liable under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 33 of these 
regulations;

[Page 26]
Page 26 of 46 
 
(b) inform all other stock exchanges where the equity shares of the company are listed, 
about such delisting; and  
(c) upload a copy of the said order on its website.  
(6) The provisions of Chapter IV of these regulations shall not be applicable to a compulsory 
delisting made by a recognised stock exchange under this Chapter.  
Rights of public shareholders in case of compulsory delisting  
33. (1) Where the equity shares of a company are delisted by a recognised stock exchange 
under this Chapter, the recognised stock exchange shall appoint an independent valuer(s) who 
shall determine the fair value of the delisted equity shares.  
 (2) The recognised stock exchange shall form a Panel of expert valuers and from the said Panel, 
the valuer(s) for the purposes of sub-regulation (1) shall be appointed.  
(3) The value of the delisted equity shares s hall be determined by the valuer(s) having regard 
to the factors mentioned in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 20  of these regulations. 
(4) The promoter(s) of the company shall acquire the delisted equity shares from the public 
shareholders by paying them  the value determined by the valuer, within three months of the 
date of delisting from the recognised stock exchange, subject to the option of the public 
shareholders to retain their shares.  
 (5)  The promoter shall be liable to pay interest at the rate o f ten percent per annum to all the 
shareholders, who offer their shares under the compulsory delisting offer, if the price payable 
in terms of sub-regulation (3) is not paid to all the shareholders within the time specified under 
sub-regulation (4):  
Provided that in case the delay was not attributable to any act or omission of the acquirer or 
was caused due to the circumstances beyond the control of the acquirer, the Board may grant 
waiver from the payment of such interest. 
Consequences of compulsory delisting  
34. (1) Where a company has been compulsorily delisted under this Chapter, the company, 
its whole -time directors, person(s) responsible for ensuring compliance with the securities 
laws, its promoters and the companies which are promoted by any of them shall not directly or 
indirectly access the securities market or seek listing of any equity shares or act as an 
intermediary in the securities market for a period of ten years from the date of such delisting.  
 (2)  In case of a company whose fair value is positive -   
(a)  such a company and the depositories shall not effect transfer, by way of sale, 
pledge, etc., of any of the equity shares held by the promoters / promoter group and the 
corporate benefits like dividend, rights, bonus shares, split, etc. sha ll be frozen for all

[Page 27]
Page 27 of 46 
 
the equity shares held by the promoters/ promoter group, till the promoters of such 
company provide an exit option to the public shareholders in compliance with sub -
regulation (4) of regulation 33 of these regulations, as certified by the relevant 
recognized stock exchange; 
(b)  the promoters, whole -time directors and person(s) responsible for ensuring 
compliance with the securities laws,  of the compulsorily delisted company shall also 
not be eligible to become directors of any listed company till the exit option as 
mentioned in clause (a) is provided. 
(3) The stock exchange(s) shall monitor the compliance of the provisions of this Chapter and 
take appropriate action for non-compliance thereof in accordance with the provisions of these 
regulations.

[Page 28]
Page 28 of 46 
 
CHAPTER VI 
Part - A 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SMALL COMPANIES  
Delisting of equity shares of small companies 
35. (1) Equity shares of a company may be delisted from all the recognised stock exchanges 
where they are listed, without following the procedure in Chapter IV of these regulations, if,- 
(a) the company has a paid up capital not exceeding ten crore rupees and net worth not 
exceeding twenty five crore rupees as on the last date of preceding financial year; 
(b) the number of equity shares of the company traded on each such recognised stock 
exchange during the twelve calendar months immediately preceding the date of board 
meeting held for consideration of the proposal referred to in sub -regulation (4) of 
regulation 10 of these regulations is less than ten per cent of the total number of shares 
of the company: 
Provided that where the share capital of a particular class of shares of the company is 
not constant throughout such period, the weighted average of the shares of such class 
shall represent the total number of shares of such class of the company; 
(c) the co mpany has not been suspended by any of the recognised stock exchanges 
having nationwide trading terminals for any non-compliance in the preceding one year. 
(2) Delisting of equity shares may be made under sub -regulation (1) only if, in addition to 
fulfilment of the requirements of regulations 10 and 11 of these regulations, the following 
conditions are fulfilled:- 
(a) acquirer(s) appoints a Manager to the offer and decides an exit price af ter 
consultation;   
(b) the exit price offered to the public shareholders shall not be less than the floor price 
determined in terms of clause (e) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 8 of the Takeover 
Regulations; 
(c) the acquirer writes individually to al l the public shareholders of the company 
informing them of its intention to get the equity shares delisted, the exit price together 
with the justification therefor and seeking their consent for the proposal for delisting; 
(d) the public shareholders, irres pective of their numbers, holding ninety percent or 
more of the public shareholding give their consent in writing to the proposal for 
delisting, and consent either to sell their equity shares at the price offered by the acquirer 
or to continue to hold the equity shares even if they are delisted;

[Page 29]
Page 29 of 46 
 
(e) the acquirer completes the process of inviting the positive consent and finalisation 
of the proposal for delisting of equity shares within seventy five working days of the 
first communication made under clause (c); 
(f) the acquirer makes payment of consideration in cash within fifteen working days 
from the date of expiry of seventy five working days mentioned in clause (e). 
(3) The communication made to the public shareholders under clause (c) of sub-regulation (2) 
shall contain justification for the offer price with particular reference to the applicable 
parameters mentioned in sub -regulation (2) of regulation 20 of these regulations and 
specifically mention that consent for the proposal would include consent for  dispensing with 
the exit price discovery through reverse book building method. 
(4) The acquirer shall be liable to pay interest at the rate of ten percent per annum to all the 
shareholders, whose bids have been accepted in the delisting offer, if the price payable in terms 
of sub-regulation (2) is not paid to all the shareholders within the time specified thereunder:  
Provided that in case the delay was not attributable to any act or omission of the acquirer or 
was caused due to the circumstances beyond the control of the acquirer, the Board may grant 
waiver from the payment of such interest. 
(5) The relevant recognised stock exchange may delist such equity shares upon satisfying itself 
of compliance with this regulation. 
Part - B 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR COMPANIES LISTED ON INNOVATORS GROWTH 
PLATFORM 
Delisting of equity shares of companies listed on innovators growth platform after making 
an initial public offer 
36. (1) The provisions of these regulations, shall mutatis mutandis apply to delisting of 
equity shares of a company listed on innovators growth platform after making a public issue, 
subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2). 
(2) A company whose equity shares are listed and traded on the innovators growth platform 
pursuant to an initial public offer may be delisted from the innovators growth platform, if - 
(a) such delisting is  approved by the Board of Directors of the company;  
(b) such delisting is approved by the shareholders of the company by a special 
resolution passed through postal ballot or e-voting, after disclosure of all material facts 
in the explanatory statement sent to the shareholders in relation to such resolution:   
Provided that the special resolution shall be acted upon only if the votes cast by the 
majority of public shareholders are in favour of such exit proposal;

[Page 30]
Page 30 of 46 
 
(c) delisting price is based on a floor price de termined in terms of regulation 8 of 
Takeover Regulations, as may be applicable, and an additional delisting premium 
justified by the acquirer; 
(d) the post offer shareholding of the acquirer along with the persons acting in 
concert with it, taken together with the shares tendered reaches seventy five per cent of 
the total issued shares of that class and at least fifty per cent shares of the public 
shareholders as on date of the board meeting referred to in clause (a) of sub-regulation 
(2) are tendered and accepted; and 
(e) the recognised stock exchange(s), on which its shares are listed, approves of 
such delisting.  
Part - C 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR A SUBSIDIARY COMPANY GETTING DELISTED 
THROUGH A SCHEME OF ARRANGEMENT WHEREIN THE LISTED HOLDING 
COMPANY AND THE SUBSIDIARY COMPANY ARE IN THE SAME LINE OF 
BUSINESS 
Delisting of equity shares of a subsidiary company pursuant to a scheme of arrangement   
37.  (1) Nothing contained in these regulations shall apply to the delisting of equity shares 
of a subsidiary compa ny, pursuant to a scheme of arrangement by an order of a Court or 
Tribunal with its listed holding company, whose equity shares are frequently traded, and where 
the listed holding company and the subsidiary company are in the same line of business.  
(2) The delisting of the equity shares of a subsidiary company in terms of sub -regulation (1) 
shall be permitted subject to the following:- 
a) the listed holding company shall provide for the issue of its equity shares in lieu of 
cancellation of any equity shares in the delisting subsidiary company; 
b) upon such delisting becoming effective, the subsidiary company shall become a 
wholly owned subsidiary of the listed holding company; 
c)   compliance with regulations 11, 37 and 94 of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the 
Circulars issued thereunder; 
d) e-voting from shareholders of both listed companies wherein v otes cast by public 
shareholders of the listed subsidiary in favour of the proposal are at least two times 
the number of votes cast against it and the votes cast by the public shareholders of the 
listed holding company in favour of the proposal are more th an the number of votes 
cast by the public shareholders against it;

[Page 31]
Page 31 of 46 
 
e) the shares of the listed holding company and the subsidiary company  are listed for at 
least 3 years and shall not be suspended at the time of taking this route; 
f)   the subsidiary company has been a listed subsidiary of the listed holding company for 
the past three years; 
g) no adverse orders  have been passed by the Board in the past 3 years against the listed 
holding company and the listed subsidiary company;  
h) no further restructuring shall be undertaken by the listed holding company for a period 
of 3 years from the date of the Order of the Court or Tribunal approving the scheme 
of arrangement; 
i)  the equity shares of the listed subsidiary so delisted, shall not be allowed to seek 
relisting for a period of three years from the date of delisting and such relisting shall 
be in terms of sub-regulation (3) and (4) of  regulation 40 of these regulations; and,   
j)  the valuation of shares of the listed subsidiary per share shall not be less than sixty 
days volume weighted average price. 
37[Explanation —The reference date for computing the volume weighted average price 
would be the  date on which the prior intimation is required to be given to the stock 
exchanges under regulation 29  of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to 
time.] 
Part – D 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR DELISTING BY OPERATION OF LAW 
Delisting in case of winding up of a company and de-recognition of a stock exchange  
38. (1) In case of winding up proceedings of a company whose equity shares are listed on 
a recognised stock exchange, the rights, if any, of the shareholders of such company shall be 
in accordance with the laws applicable to those proceedings. 
(2) Where the Board withdraws recognition granted to a stock exchange or refuses renewal of 
recognition to it, the Board may, in the interest of investors pass appropriate order(s) in respect 
of the status of equity shares of the companies listed on that stock exchange. 
                                                           
37 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delistin g of Equity Shares) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024. Before the substitution, the Explanation read as under-  
“Explanation,— The reference date for computing the volume weighted average price would be the date 
on which the recognized stock exchange(s) was required to be notified of the board meeting in which the 
delisting proposal of the subsidiary was considered and approved..”

[Page 32]
Page 32 of 46 
 
38[Part – E 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR DELISTING OF INVESTMENT HOLDING 
COMPANY 
Delisting of equity shares of a listed investment holding company pursuant to a scheme 
of arrangement 
38A (1) Nothing contained in these regulations shall apply to the delisting of equity shares of 
an investment holding company, pursuant to a scheme of arrangement by an order of a Court 
or Tribunal. 
(2) Delisting of equity shares made under sub -regulation (1) shall be undertaken, in the  
following manner- 
i. the listed investment holding company shall transfer the equity shares (value as  
calculated on a net of pro -rata liabilities) held by it in other listed companies, to its  
public shareholders in proportion to their shareholding; 
ii. the listed investment holding compa ny shall make payment in cash (value as  
calculated on a net of pro -rata liabilities) in exchange for the underlying shares or  
investments made by such investment holding company in unlisted companies and  
other assets, if any, to its public shareholders in proportion to their shareholding; 
iii. public shareholding of the listed investment holding company shall be extinguished 
upon transfer of the underlying shares mentioned at (i) and payment in cash mentioned 
at (ii), pursuant to a scheme for selective redu ction of capital under  Section 66 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, as amended from time to time; and 
iv. the listed investment holding company shall apply to the stock exchanges for  
delisting. 
(3) The delisting of the equity shares of an investment holding comp any in terms of sub -
regulation (1) shall be permitted, subject to the fulfilment of the following conditions – 
i. the listed investment holding company shall have not less than seventy -five percent 
of its fair value comprising direct investments in equity shares of other  listed 
companies; 
Explanation: The fair value (net of liabilities) of the listed investment holding company 
shall be determined pursuant to a joint report by two independent  registered valuers, 
which, inter-alia, shall include- 
                                                           
38 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024 w.e.f. 25.09.2024.

[Page 33]
Page 33 of 46 
 
a) value of investments of frequently traded shares of listed companies based on 
sixty trading days volume weighted average market price; 
b) fair value of investments of infrequently traded shares of listed companies  
and unlisted companies; and 
c) fair value of other assets of the listed investment holding company. 
ii. the listed investment holding company shall comply with regulations 11, 37 and 94  
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the Circulars issued thereunder; 
iii. there shall be e-voting by shareholders of such listed investment holding company  
wherein votes cast by public shareholders of the listed investment holding company in 
favour of the proposal are not less than two times the number of votes cast against it; 
iv. the material disclosures in relation to calculation of the entitlement ratio and per  
share consideration is included in the explanatory statement of the notice for the  
shareholders meeting; 
v. the join t valuation report obtained by two independent registered valuers shall be  
submitted to the stock exchanges along with draft scheme for disclosure to public; 
vi. the report from a chartered accountant or merchant banker confirming the  
entitlement ratio is obtained; 
vii. the shares of the listed investment holding company shall have been listed for not  
less than 3 years and shall not be suspended at the time of taking this route; 
viii. no adverse orders have been passed by the Board against the listed invest ment 
holding company and their promoters or promoter group in the last three years; and 
ix. the equity shares of the listed investment holding company so delisted, shall not be  
permitted to seek relisting for a period of three years from the date of delisting: 
Provided that such relisting shall be in terms of sub -regulation (3) and (4) of  
regulation 40 of these regulations. 
(4) The delisting of the equity shares of an investment holding company shall also be subject 
to the compliance with any requirement specified by any financial sector regulator with whom 
such investment holding company is regulated.]

[Page 34]
Page 34 of 46 
 
                                              39[Part-F 
 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR DELISTING OF PUBLIC SECTOR 
UNDERTAKING 
 
 
Delisting of Equity Shares of Public Sector Undertakings 
38B. (1) The provisions of these regulations, shall mutatis mutandis apply to delisting of equity 
shares of public sector undertakings, other than Banks, Non-Banking Financial Companies and 
Insurance Companies, subject to the provisions of sub-regulations (2) and (3). 
 
(2) The equity shares of public sector undertaking referred to in sub -regulation (1) may be 
delisted from all the recognised stock exchanges where they are listed, subject to the following: 
 
(a) the aggregate shareholding of the acquirer along with other public sector undertaking(s) 
equal or exceed ninety per cent of the total issued shares of that class;  
 
(b) the delisting is approved by the shareholders of the public sector undertaking referred 
to in sub-regulation (1), by way of a special resolution passed through postal ballot or e -
voting, and the explanatory statement to the notice of such resolution contains all material 
facts in relation to such delisting;  
 
(c) the delisting is undertaken through the fixed price process;  
 
(d) the floor price of the equity shares proposed to be delisted shall not be less than the 
highest of the following: 
 
(i) volume weighted average price paid or payable for acquisitions by the acquirer 
along with persons acting in concert, during the 52 weeks immediately preceding 
the reference date;  
 
(ii) the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition by the acquirer along with 
persons acting in concert during the 26 weeks immediately preceding the 
reference date;  
 
(iii) the price determined under a joint valuation report obtained from two independent 
registered valuers, taking into account valuation parameters such as book value, 
adjusted book value, comparable trading multiples, income approach and any 
other custom ary valuation metrics as applicable for valuation of shares of  
companies in the same industry; and 
  
                                                           
39 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2025 w.e.f. 03.09.2025.

[Page 35]
Page 35 of 46 
 
(e) the delisting price shall be at least fifteen percent higher than the price determined 
under sub-clause (d). 
 
(3) Where a public sector undertaking whose shares have been delisted in accordance with the 
provisions of this Part undertakes voluntary strike -off under the applicable laws, and if such 
strike-off is effected after one year from the date of delisting but not later than thirty days from 
the expiry of such one -year period, then such strike -off shall be subject to fulfilment of the 
following conditions- 
 
(a) the amount which is due to the remaining public shareholders who have not tendered 
their shares in the delisting process shall be transferred to specified account of the 
designated stock exchange, which shall hold such amount for a period of seven years 
during which period the investors may claim the amount payable to them from the 
designated Stock Exchange;  
 
(b) after completion of the period specified under clause (a), such amount shall be transferred 
as per applicable laws to the Investor Education and Prot ection Fund established under 
the Companies Act, 2013;  
 
(c) if, for any reason, the amount specified in clause (b) cannot be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund established under the Companies Act, 2013, such amount 
shall be transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund of the Board; and 
 
(d) after the transfer of amount to the Investor Ed ucation and Protection Fund or Investor 
Protection and Education Fund, as the case may be, the investor may claim the payable 
amount from the designated Stock Exchange, which in turn may claim reimbursement 
from the aforesaid fund in accordance with the procedures as may be specified by the 
Board from time to time.] 
 
CHAPTER VII 
MISCELLANEOUS 
Recognised stock exchanges to monitor compliance 
39. The respective recognised stock exchange(s) shall adhere to the provisions of these 
regulations, monitor compliance with the provisions of these regulations and shall report to the 
Board any non-compliance which comes to their notice. 
Listing of delisted equity shares 
40. (1) No application for listing shall be made in respect of equity shares of a company,-

[Page 36]
Page 36 of 46 
 
(a) which have been delisted under Chapter III or under Chapter VI of these regulations, 
for a period of three years from the delisting; 
(b) which have been delisted under Chapter V of these regulations, for a period of ten years 
from the delisting. 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -regulation (1), an application for listing of 
delisted equity shares may be made in respect of a company: 
(a) whose equity shares have been delisted pursuant to a resolution plan under section 
31 of the Insolvency Code;  
(b) whose equity shares are listed and traded on the innovators growth platform 
pursuant to an initial public offer and which is delisted from the said platform; 
(c) whose equity shares have been delisted in terms of regulation 35 of these 
regulations.   
(3) While considering an application for listing of equity shares of a company which had been 
delisted earlier, the recognised stock exchange shall give due regard to the facts and 
circumstances under which such equity shares were delisted.  
(4) An application for listing made in respect of delisted equity shares shall be deemed to be 
an application for fresh listing of such equity shares and sh all be subject to provisions of law 
relating to listing of equity shares of unlisted companies:  
Provided that the company shall make appropriate disclosures in the offer document about the 
reasons for seeking listing after delisting.  
CHAPTER VIII 
Power of the Board to issue clarifications 
41. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these 
regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines from time to time. 
Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations.  
42. (1)   The  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  or  for  the  development  of  the  
securities market,  relax  the  strict  enforcement  of  any  requirement  of  these  regulations,  
if  the  Board  is satisfied that-  
a) the requirement is procedural in nature; or  
b) any disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular class of industry or 
company; or  
c) the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the acquirer.

[Page 37]
Page 37 of 46 
 
(2) For seeking relaxation under sub -regulation (1), the acquirer or the company shall file 
an application with the Board, 40[which shall be self-attested] providing details of such 
relaxation  of the regulations and the grounds on which the relaxation  has been sought. 
(3) The acquirer or the company, as the case may be, shall along with the application referred 
to under sub-regulation (2) pay a non- refundable fee of rupees one lakh, by way of direct credit 
in the bank account through electronic modes including payment gateways or such other mode 
allowed by the Reserve Bank of India. 
(4) The Board may also exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any 
of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve 
months, for furthering innovation 41[***] relating to testing new products, processes, services, 
business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets. 
(5) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub -regulation (5) shall be subject to the 
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to 
be complied with on a continuous basis. 
Explanation,— For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live testing 
environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed 
on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation 
in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
Directions by the Board 
43. Without prejudice to provisions of the Act and those of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Board may in case of any violation of these regulations 
and in the interests of the investors and the securities market issue such direct ions as it deems 
fit.  
Repeal and Savings 
44. (1)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) 
Regulations, 2009, stand repealed from the date on which these regulations come into force. 
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal,— 
(a) anything  done  or  any  action  taken  or  purported  to  have  been  done  or  taken 
including in-principle approval given by the recognised stock exchanges,  relaxation or 
exemption granted by the Board, fee collected, any adjudication, enquiry or 
investigation commenced or show cause notice issued  under  the  repealed  regulations,  
                                                           
40 Substituted for the words “attested as true by a  notary public” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Attestation of Documents) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 28-11-2024. 
41 The words “in technological aspects” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Boar d of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 3.8.2021.

[Page 38]
Page 38 of 46 
 
prior  to  such  repeal,  shall  be deemed to have been done or taken under the 
corresponding provisions of these regulations; 
(b) the  previous  operation  of  the  repealed  reg ulations  or  anything  duly  done  or 
suffered thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or 
incurred under the repealed regulations, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred 
in respect of any contravention or offence committed against the repealed regulations, 
or any  investigation,  proceeding  or  remedy  in  respect  of  any  such  right, privilege,  
obligation,  liability,  penalty,  forfeiture  or  punishment  as  aforesaid, shall remain 
unaffected as if the repealed regulations had never been repealed; 
(c) nothing contained in clause (a) shall apply to  any  delisting offer  in respect of 
which  a public  announcement  has  been  made  under  the repealed regulations, and 
such delisting offer shall be required to be continued and completed under the repealed 
regulations. 
(3) subsequent to the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of equity 
shares)  Regulations,  2009,  any  reference  thereto  in  any  other  regulations,  guidelines  or  
circulars  issued  by  the  Board  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a reference to the corresponding 
provisions of these regulations.

[Page 39]
Page 39 of 46 
 
SCHEDULE I 
See regulation 15(2) 
CONTENTS OF THE DETAILED PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT 
1. The floor price and the offer price and how they were arrived at. 
2. The indicative price, if any, given by the acquirer.  
3. The dates of opening and closing of the bidding period. 
4. The name of the stock exchange from which the equity shares are sought to be delisted. 
5. The manner in which the delisting offer can be accepted by the shareholders. 
6. Disclosure regarding the minimum acceptance condition for success of the offer. 
7. The name(s) of the Manager to the offer and other intermediaries together with the helpline 
number for the shareholders. 
8. The specified date fixed as per sub-regulation (3) of regulation 15 of these regulations. 
9. The object of the proposed delisting. 
10. The proposed time table from opening of the delisting offer till the payment of consideration 
or return of equity shares. 
11. Details of the escrow account and the amount deposited therein. 
12. Listing details and stock market data including: 
(a) high, low and average market prices of the equity shares of the company during the 
preceding three years; 
(b) monthly high and low prices for the six months preceding the date of the detailed public 
announcement; and, 
(c) the volume of equity shares traded in each month during the six months preceding the 
date of detailed public announcement. 
13. Present capital structure and shareholding pattern of the company. 
14. The expected post-delisting shareholding pattern of the company. 
15. The aggregate shareholding of the acquirer with persons acting in concert and of the 
directors of the acquirer where the acquirer is a company and of persons who are in control of 
the company.

[Page 40]
Page 40 of 46 
 
16. A statement, certified to be true by the Board of Directors of the company, disclosing 
material deviation, if any, in utilisation of proceeds of issues of securities made during the five 
years immediately preceding the date of detailed public announcement, from the stated objects 
of the issues. 
17. A statement by the Board of Directors of the company confirming that all material 
information which is required to be disclosed under the provisions of continuou s listing 
requirement have been disclosed to the stock exchanges. 
 18. List of documents copies of which shall be available for inspection by the public 
shareholders at the registered office of the Manager to the offer during the working days.  
19. A statement by the Board of Directors of the company certifying that:- 
(a) the company is in compliance with the applicable provisions of securities laws; 
(b) the acquirer or its related entities have not carried out any transaction during the aforesaid 
period to facilitate the success of the delisting offer which is not in compliance with the 
provisions of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 4 of these regulations; 
(c) the delisting, in their opinion, is in the interest of the shareholders. 
20. Name of compliance officer of the company.

[Page 41]
Page 41 of 46 
 
SCHEDULE II 
See regulation 20(1) 
THE REVERSE BOOK BUILDING PROCESS 
1. The reverse book building process shall be made through an electronically linked transparent 
facility and the acquirer shall enter into an agreement with a stock exchange for this purpose. 
2. The detailed public announcement and letter of offer shall be filed without delay with the 
stock exchange mentioned in clause 1 and such stock exchange shall forthwith post the same 
on its website. 
3. The minimum number of bidding centres shall be: 
(a) the four metropolitan centres situated at Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai; 
(b) such cities in the region in which the registered office of the company is situated, as are 
specified by the stock exchange mentioned in clause  1. 
4. There shall be at least one electronically linked computer terminal at all bidding centres. 
5. The shareholders may withdraw or revise their bids upwards not later than one day before 
the closure of the bidding period. Downward revision of bids shall not be permitted. 
6. The acquirer shall appoint ‘trading members’ at the bidding centres, whom the public 
shareholders may approach for placing bids on the on-line electronic system. 
7. The shareholders holding dematerialized shares, desirous of availing  the exit opportunity 
may enter their bid by way of marking a lien in favour of the special depositories account 
opened by the Manager to the offer. 
8. The Manager to the offer shall ensure that the equity shares in the said special depositories 
account are not transferred to the account of the acquirer unless the bids in respect thereof are 
accepted and payments in respect thereof are made.  
9. The holders of physical equity shares shall ensure that the bidding form, together with the 
share certificate and  transfer deed, is received by the share transfer agent appointed for the 
purpose before the last date of bidding period. The share transfer agent shall deliver the 
certificates, which are found to be genuine, to the Manager to the offer, who shall not han d it 
over to the acquirer unless the bids in respect thereof are accepted and payment in respect 
thereof is made. The bids in respect of the certificates which are found to be non-genuine shall 
be deleted from the system. 
10. The verification of physical c ertificates for making the public announcement under 
regulation 17 of these regulations shall be completed on the day on which they are received by 
the share transfer agent.

[Page 42]
Page 42 of 46 
 
11. The bids placed in the system shall have an audit trail which includes stock b roker 
identification details, time stamp and unique order number.  
 12. Clauses 1 to 11 shall not be applicable in respect of the book building process where 
settlement is carried out through stock exchange mechanism as specified in sub-regulation (2) 
of regulation 17 of these regulations.  
 13.  The discovered price shall be determined as the price at which shares are accepted through 
eligible  bids,  that  takes  the shareholding  of  the  acquirer (along with  the  persons  acting  
in  concert)  to  ninety  per  cent  of  the  total  issued shares of that class excluding the shares 
which are held by following: 
(i) a custodian(s) holding shares against which depository receipts have been issued 
overseas; 
(ii) a trust set up for implementing an Employee Benefit scheme under the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 
2014;  
(iii)  inactive shareholders such as  vanishing companies, struck off companies, 
shares transferred to Investor Education and Protection Fund account and shares 
held in terms of sub-regulation (4) of regulation 39 read with Schedule VI of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations 2015. 
14. An illustration for arriving at the discovered price is given in the table below: 
Bid 
price 
(₹) 
Number 
of 
investors 
Demand 
(Number of 
shares) 
Cumulative 
demand 
(Number of 
shares) 
  
550 5 2,50,000 2,50,000 
  
565 8 4,00,000 6,50,000 
  
575 10 2,00,000 8,50,000 
  
585 4 4,00,000 12,50,000 
  
595 6 1,20,000 13,70,000

[Page 43]
Page 43 of 46 
 
600 5 1,30,000 15,00,000 
 
Final Offer Price 
605 3 2,10,000 17,10,000 
  
610 3 1,40,000 18,50,000 
  
615 3 1,50,000 20,00,000 
  
620 1 5,00,000 25,00,000 
  
Total  48 25,00,000  Not applicable  
  
  
 
Assuming floor price of ₹550/ - per share, shareholding of the acquirer at 75% and 
number of shares required for successful delisting as 15,00,000, the discovered price 
would be the price at which the acquirer reaches the threshold of 90%, i.e., it would 
be ₹600/- per share.

[Page 44]
Page 44 of 46 
 
SCHEDULE III 
See regulation 32 (4) 
GUIDELINES FOR COMPULSORY DELISTING 
1. The recognised stock exchange shall take into account the grounds prescribed in the rules 
made under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) while compulsorily 
delisting the equity shares of the company.  
2. The recognised stock exchange shall take all reasonable steps to trace the promoters of a 
company whose equity shares are proposed to be delisted, with a view to ensuring compliance 
with sub-regulation (4) of regulation 33. 
3. The recognised stock exchange shall consider the nature and extent of the alleged non -
compliance by the company and the number and percentage of public shareholders who may 
be affected by such non-compliance. 
4. The recognised stock exchange shall take re asonable efforts to verify the status of 
compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and the rules and 
regulations made thereunder, by the company with the office of the concerned Registrar of 
Companies.  
5. The names of the comp anies whose equity shares are proposed to be delisted and their 
promoters shall be displayed in a separate section on the website of the recognised stock 
exchange. If delisted, the names shall be shifted to another separate section on the website. 
6. The r ecognised stock exchange shall in appropriate cases file prosecutions under relevant 
provisions of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or any other law for 
the time being in force against identifiable promoters and directors of the  company for the 
alleged non-compliances. 
7. The recognised stock exchange shall,  in appropriate cases,  under the applicable provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), file a petition for winding up the company or make 
a request to the Registrar of Companies to strike off the name of the company from the register.

[Page 45]
Page 45 of 46 
 
SCHEDULE IV 
See regulation 22(4) 
Timelines for counter offer  
Sr. 
No. 
Activity Timelines 
1. Public announcement of counter offer by the 
acquirer through stock exchange mechanism 
Within two working days from the date of 
closure of reverse book building bidding 
process 
2. Publication of counter offer public 
announcement in the same newspapers where the 
detailed public announcement was made 
Within four working days from the 
closure of the reverse book building 
bidding process 
3. Option to withdraw the shares tendered during 
the reverse book building  process 
Within ten working days from the counter 
offer public announcement 
4. Dispatch of “Letter of offer for counter offer”  Within four working days from the 
closure of the reverse book building 
bidding process 
5. Opening of counter offer bidding process Not later than seven working days from 
the date of public announcement  
6. Closing of counter offer bidding process Not later than five working days from the 
opening of counter offer bidding process 
7. Public announcement of success/failure of 
counter offer in the same newspaper in which 
detailed public announcement under sub -
regulation (1) of regulation 15 was made 
Not later than five working days of the 
closing of the counter offer bidding 
process 
8. Payment of consideration  Not later than ten working days from the 
closing of counter offer or through the 
secondary market settlement mechanism, 
as the case may be 
9 Release of equity shares On the date of making public 
announcement of the success or failure of 
the counter offer 
 
 Sd/- 
AJAY TYAGI 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

[Page 46]
Page 46 of 46 
 
Note: 
 
1.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) 
Regulations, 2021, were published in the  Gazette  of  India  on  June 10, 2021  
vide  notification  No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021-25. 
2.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) 
Regulations, 2021, were amended on-   
a. August 3, 2021, by the Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, vide notification  
No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/30. 
b. September 25, 2024, by the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  
(Delisting  of  Equity  Shares) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 , vide 
notification  No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/206. 
c. November 28, 2024, by the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  
(Attestation of  Documents) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 , vide 
notification  No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2024/212. 
d. September 3, 2025, by the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  
(Delisting  of  Equity  Share s) (Amendment) Regulations, 202 5, vide 
notification  No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/257. 
 
*** 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations.]
