[Page 1]
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
{KYC (Know Your Client) REGISTRATION AGENCY} REGULATIONS, 2011 
 
[Amended upto February 10, 2025] 
 
No. LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/29/36772─In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India hereby makes the following regulations, namely: - 
 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title & commencement 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know 
Your Client) Registration Agency} Regulations, 2011. 
 (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
 
Definitions 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
 bear the meanings assigned to them below - 
(a) ‘‘Act’’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 
of the Act; 
(c) “Certificate” means a certificate of registration granted by the Board under these 
regulations; 
(d) “Client” means a person seeking to do/has done his KYC through intermediary with 
KRA; 
1[(da) “Change in control” in case of a body corporate –  
                                                           
1 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Control in Intermediaries) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 17-1-2023. Prior to its substitution, clause (da) read as under: 
““change in control”, in relation to a KRA, means: ─ 
(i) if its shares are listed on any recognised stock exchange, change in control within the  meaning of 
regulations framed under clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act; 
(ii) in any other case, change in the controlling interest; 
Explanation. ─ For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means, 
(A) an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of at least fifty-one percent of voting rights; or 
(B) right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management directly or indirectly;”

[Page 2]
(A) if its shares are listed on any recognised  stock exchange, shall be construed 
with reference to the definition of control in terms of regulations framed under 
clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act;  
(B) if its shares are not listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be construed 
with reference to the definition of control as provided in sub-section (27) of Section 
2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);]  
 
 (e) ‘‘Inspecting authority’’ means any one or more person appointed by the Board to 
exercise powers conferred under chapter IV; 
(f) “Intermediary” means an entity associated with securities market and registered under 
sub-section (1A), (1B) and (1) of Section 12 of the Act; who is required to do KYC of its 
clients; 
(g) “Intermediaries Regulations’’ means Securities and Ex change Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; 
(h) “KYC Registration Agency (KRA)” is a company formed and registered under the 
2[Companies Act,  2013 (18 of 2013) ] and which has been granted a certificate of 
registration under these regulations which hereinafter shall be deemed to be an 
intermediary in terms of the provisions of the Act; 
(i) ‘‘KYC’’ means the procedure 3[specified] by the Board for identifying and verifying 
the Proof of Address, Proof of Identity and compliance with rules, regula tions, guidelines 
and circulars issued by the Board or any other authority for Prevention of Money 
Laundering from time to time; 
(j) “Operating Instructions” means operating instructions made by a KRA under Regulation 
15; 
4[***] 
5[***] 
6[(2) All other words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations shall have the 
same meaning as have been assigned to them under the Act or the Securities Contracts 
                                                           
2 The words and symbols “Companies Act, 1956” substituted with “Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)” by the 
Securities and Exchange Board o f India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency}  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022. 
3 The word “prescribed” substituted with “specified” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know 
Your Client) Registration Agency} (Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022. 
4 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency}  
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022. Prior to omission, clause (k) read as under: 
“(k) “Rules’’ means Prevention of Money Laundering Rules, 2005;” 
5 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency}  
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022. Prior to omission, clause (l) read as under: 
“(l) “Prescrib ed” means prescribed by a general or special order or circular issued under the Act or these 
regulations.” 
6 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency}  
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under: 
“(2) All other words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations shall have the same meaning as 
have been assigned to them under the Act or the Securities Contracts (Regulation) A ct, 1956, (42 of 1956) or

[Page 3]
(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), or the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996), o r the 
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), or Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 
2003) or any rules or regulations made thereunder or any statutory modification or re -
enactment thereto, as the case may be.] 
 
CHAPTER II 
REGISTRATION OF KRA 
Application for grant of certificate of 7[***] registration 
3. An application for the grant of a certificate of registration as a KRA shall be made to the Board 
in Form as specified in Schedule I and shall be accompanied by such fees and in such manner as 
specified in Schedule II of these regulations. 
 
Application to conform to the requirements 
4. An application, which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions 
prescribed in the Form and the requirements specified therein or th e information, is false or 
misleading in any manner shall be rejected by the Board. 
Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given, in writing, an 
opportunity to remove, within thirty days of the date of communication in this regard, such 
objections as may be indicated by the Board. 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the first proviso, the Board may, on being satisfied that 
it is necessary, extend the time period by such further time, as it deems fit, in order to enable the 
applicant to remove the objections indicated by the Board. 
 
 
 
Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation 
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish such further information or documents or 
clarifications as the Board considers necessary for the purpose of consideration of the 
application. 
(2) The applicant or his authorized representative shall, if so required, appear before the Board 
for personal representation in connection with the grant of certificate of registration.  
 
                                                           
the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PML), 2005 or the PML Rules, 
2005 or any statutory modification or reenactment thereto, as the case may be.”  
7 The word “initial” was omitted by the Secur ities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.

[Page 4]
Consideration of application for grant of certificate of 8[***] registration 
6. (1) The Board shall not consider an application, unless the applicant is a fit and proper person 
to the satisfaction of the Board and belongs to one of the following categories, namely:  
(a) a wholly owned subsidiary of a recognized stock exchange, having nation -wide network of 
trading terminals, or; 
(b) a wholly owned subsidiary of a depository or any other intermediary registered with the 
Board or; 
(c) a wholly owned subsidiary of a Self Regulatory Organization (SRO) registered under SEBI 
(Self Regulatory Organization) Regulations, 2004, 
Provided that any conflict of interest does not exist between the role of the applicant as KRA 
and other commercial activities of the applicant, its associates and group companies. 
Provided further that the applicant shall have to satisfy to the Board about the organizational 
capabilities, technology and systems and safeguards for maintaining data privacy and preventing 
unauthorized sharing of data. 
Notwithstanding the aforementioned, the Board shall have the power to examine any possible 
case of conflict of interest in applications. 
(2) The applicant as mentioned in sub regulation (a) to (c) of regulation 6(1) above shall have a 
net worth of at least Rs 25 crore on a continuous basis. 
 
Grant of certificate of 9[***] registration 
7. (1) The Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall send intimation to that 
effect to the applicant, for the grant of certificate of 10[***] registration, and grant a certificate 
in the Form as specified in Schedule I. 
11[(1A) The KRA which has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior 
to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in  Conditions of 
Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have 
been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).] 
12[(2) The certificate of registration granted under sub -regulation (1) shall be valid unless it is 
suspended or cancelled by the Board.] 
                                                           
8 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In  Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
9 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
10 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
11 Inserted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
12 Substituted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Change In  Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution, it sub -regulation (2) read 
as under: 
“(2) The certificate of initial registration granted under sub -regulation (1) shall be valid  for a period of five years 
from the date of its issue to the applicant.”

[Page 5]
(3) The grant of certificate of 13[***] registration shall be subject to the payment of such fees 
and in such manner as specified in Schedule II of these regulations. 
14[(4) The KRA shall immediately intimate the Board, details of changes that have taken place 
in the information that was submitted, while seeking registration.] 
15[(5) Where the KRA proposes change in control, it shall obtain prior approval of the Board for 
continuing to act as such after the change.] 
 
8. 16[***] 
 
 Criteria for fit and proper person 
9. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant is a fit and proper person, the Board may 
take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of Intermediaries Regulations. 
 
KRA to abide by code of conduct 
10. The KRA holding a certificate of registration shall at all times abide by the Code of Conduct 
as specified in Schedule III of these regulations. 
 
Procedure where certificate of registration is not granted 
                                                           
13 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
14 Inserted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
15 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency}  
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022. 
16 Omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission regulation 8 read as under: 
“Grant of certificate of permanent registration 
8. (1) The KRA which has been granted a certificate of initial registration under regulation 7 may, three months 
before the expiry of the period of certificate of initi al registration, make an application for grant of certificate 
of permanent registration in the Form as specified in Schedule I. 
(2) An application under sub-regulation (1) shall be accompanied by such fees and in such manner as specified 
in Schedule II of these regulations. 
(3) The application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration shall be accompanied by details of the 
changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted to the Board while seeking initial 
registration, as the case may be, and a declaration stating that no changes other than those as mentioned in such 
details have taken place. 
(4) The application for permanent registration made under sub -regulation (1) shall be dealt with in the same 
manner as if, it were a fresh application for grant of a certificate of initial registration. 
(5) The Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall send intimation to that effect, to the 
applicant and shall grant a certificate of permanent registration in the format as specified in Schedule I. 
(6) The grant of certificate of permanent registration shall be subject to payment of such fees and in such manner 
as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.”

[Page 6]
11. (1) Where an application for the grant of certificate of 17[***] registration does not satisfy 
the requirements specified in regulation 6 & 9, the Board shall reject the application after giving 
the applicant an opportunity of being heard. 
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant in 
writing within thirty days of such decision, stating therein the grounds on which the application 
has been rejected. 
(3) Any applicant, aggrieved by the decision of the Boa rd, may apply within a period of thirty 
days from the date of receipt of such intimation to the Board for reconsideration of its decision. 
(4) The Board shall reconsider an application made under sub-regulation (3) and 
communicate its decision thereon, as soon as possible in writing to the applicant. 
 
12. 18[***]  
 
Surrender of certificate of registration 
13. (1) A KRA, who has been granted a certificate of registration under the Act or the regulations 
made there under, desirous of giving up its activity and  surrender the certificate, may make a  
request for such surrender to the Board. 
(2) While disposing a surrender request under these regulations, the Board may require the KRA 
to satisfy the Board about the factors, as it deems fit, including but not limite d to the following 
– 
a. the arrangements made by KRA for maintenance and preservation of records and 
other documents required to be maintained under these regulations; 
b. redressal of investor grievances; 
c. transfer of records of its clients; 
d. the arrangements made by it for ensuring continuity of service to the clients; 
e. defaults or pending action, if any. 
                                                           
17 The words “initial or permanent” omitted by the Securities a nd Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions 
Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
18 Omitted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission regulation 12 read as under: 
“Effect of refusal to grant certificate of permanent registration  
12. A KRA whose application for grant of certificate of permanent registration has been refused by the Board, 
on and from the date of the receipt of the communication, shall cease to carry on any activity as a KRA;  
Provided that the Board may, in the interest of the investors of the securities market, permit KRA to carr y on 
activities undertaken prior to the receipt of the intimation of refusal subject to such condition as the Board 
may specify.”

[Page 7]
(3) While accepting the surrender, the Board may impose such conditions upon the KRA, as it  
deems fit, for protection of the interests of investors  and the securities market, and such person  
shall comply with such conditions. 
(4) On and from the date of the surrender or cancellation of the certificate, the KRA shall-  
(a) return the certificate of registration so cancelled to the Board and shall not represent itself to 
be a holder of the certificate for carrying out the activity for which such  certificate had been 
granted; 
(b) cease to carry on any activity in respect of which the certificate had been granted;  
(c) transfer its activities to another e ntity holding a valid certificate of registration to  carry on 
such activity and allow its clients to withdraw any assignment given to it, without any additional 
cost to such client; 
(d) make provisions as regards liability incurred or assumed by it; 
(e) take such other action including the action relating to any records or documents that  may be 
in custody or control of such person, within the time period and in the manner, as may be required 
under the these regulations, or as may be directed by the Board. 
CHAPTER III 
FUNCTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS OF KRA AND INTERMEDIARY 
Documents to be obtained by the KRA for the purpose of KYC 
14. The KRA shall obtain the KYC documents of the client from the intermediary  19[***] in 
terms of the rules, regulations, guidelines and circulars issued by the Board or any other authority 
for Prevention of Money Laundering, from time to time. 
 
Functions and obligations of the KRA 
15. The KRA has the following functions and obligations – 
(a) KRA may prepare the Operating Instructions in co-ordination with other KRA(s) and  issue 
the same to implement the requirements of these regulations. 
(b) KRA(s) shall have electronic connectivity and with other KRA(s) in order to establish inter-
operability among KRAs. 
Explanation: Inter-operability means the ability of the KRA to determine whether  the KYC 
documents of the client are in the custody of another KRA. 
(c) KRA shall have a secure data transmission link with other KRA(s) and with each intermediary 
that uploads the KYC documents on its system and relies upon its data. 
(d) KRA shall be responsible for storing, safeguarding and retrieving the KYC  documents and 
submit to the Board or any other statutory authority as and when required. 
                                                           
19 The words and symbols “; as prescribed by the Board and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
{KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency} (Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28 -01-2022.

[Page 8]
20[(da) KRA shall carry out an independent validation of the KYC  records uploaded onto its 
system by the intermediary in such a manner as specified by the Board from time to time.] 
(e) KRA shall retain the 21[***] KYC documents of the client, in 22[***] electronic form for the 
period specified by 23[rules made under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 
2003)], as well as ensuring that retrieval of KYC information is facilitated within stipulated time 
period. 
(f) Any information updated about a client shall be disseminated by KRA to all  intermediaries 
that avail of the services of the KRA in respect of that client. 
(g) KRA shall ensure that the integrity of the automatic data processing systems for  electronic 
records is maintained at all times. 
(h) KRA shall take all precautions necessary to ensure that the KYC documents/records are not 
lost, destroyed or tampered with and that sufficient back up of electronic  records is available at 
all times at a different place. 
(i) KRA shall have adequate mechanisms for the purposes of reviewing, monitoring and  
evaluating its controls, systems, procedures and safeguards. 
(j) KRA shall cause an audit of its controls, systems, procedures and safeguards to be carried out 
periodically and take corrective actions for deficiencies, if any and report to Board. 
(k) KRA shall take a ll reasonable measures to prevent unauthorized access to its database  and 
have audit of its systems and procedures at regular intervals 24[as specified by the Board from 
time to time]. 
(l) KRA shall have checks built in its system so that an intermediary can access the information 
only for the clients who approach him. 
(m)KRA shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the  
compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines, instructions,  etc., issued 
by the Board or the Central Government and for redressal of client’s grievances. The compliance 
officer shall immediately and independently report to the  Board any non-compliance observed 
by him. 
(n) KRA shall send a letter to each client after receipt of the KYC documents from the  
intermediary, confirming the client’s details thereof. 
                                                           
20 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency}  
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022. 
21 Omitted by SEBI {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency} (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 22 -
03-2013.  
22 ibid. 
23 The word “Rules” substituted with “ rules made under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 
2003)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency}  
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022. 
24 The words “as prescribed by the Board ” substituted with “ as specified by the Board from time to time ” by the 
Securities and Exchange Bo ard of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency}  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022.

[Page 9]
(o) KRA shall take adequate steps for redressal of the grievances of the clients within one month 
of the date of receipt of the complaint and keep the Board informed about the  number, nature 
and other particulars of the complaints from such investors. 
25[(p) KRA shall maintain an audit trail of any upload/ modification /download regarding the 
KYC records of each client.] 
26[(q) The KRA shall ensure compliance with the Investor Charter specified by the Board from 
time to time.] 
 
Functions and obligations of an Intermediary 
16. The Intermediary has the following functions and obligations – 
27[(a) The intermediary shall perform the initial KYC/due diligence of the client, upload the KYC 
information with proper authentication on the system of the KRA, furnish the scanned images 
of the KYC documents to the KRA, and retain the physical KYC documents: 
Provided that in the case of clients of a mutual fund, the Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agent appointed by the mutual fund may perform the initial KYC/due diligence of the client, 
upload the KYC information with proper authentication on the system of the KRA, and furnish 
the scanned images of KYC documents to the KRA.] 
28[(aa) The intermediary or the mutual fund, as the case may be, shall furnish the physical KYC 
documents or authenticated copies thereof to the KRA, whenever so desired by the KRA.] 
29[(b) When the client approaches another intermediary subsequently, the intermediary shall 
verify and download the client’s details from the system of KRA:  
Provided that upon receipt of information on change in KYC details and status of the  clients by 
the i ntermediary or when it comes to the knowledge of the intermediary, at  any stage, the 
                                                           
25 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency}  
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022. 
26 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Charter) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f. 10-02-2025. 
27 Substituted by the SEBI {KYC(Know Your Client) Registration Agency} (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 
22-03-2013 for the following:  
(a) The intermediary shall perform the initial KYC/due diligence of the client, shall upload the KYC information 
on the system of the KRA and send the original KYC documents to KRA forthwith from the date of account opening 
or within the time as prescribed by the board from time to time. However, in case of mutual funds, an RTA appointed 
by the mutual fund may also undertake the KYC of the client and send the original documents to the mutual fund 
or KRA. 
28 Inserted by the SE BI {KYC(Know Your Client) Registration Agency} (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. 
22-03-2013 
29 Substituted by the SEBI {KYC(Know Your Client) Registration Agency} (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 
13-03-2014 for the following:  
(b) When the client approaches another intermediary subsequently, it will be optional for the intermediary to verify 
and download the client’s details from the system of KRA or to take fresh KYC as per existing system. However, 
upon receipt of information on change in KYC details and status of the clients by the intermediary or when it comes 
to the knowledge of the intermediary, at any stage, the intermediary shall be responsible for uploading the updated 
information on the system of KRA and 29[retaining the physical documents].

[Page 10]
intermediary shall be responsible for uploading the updated information on the system of KRA 
and retaining the physical documents.] 
(c) An intermediary shall not use the KYC data of a client obtained from the KRA for purposes 
other than it is meant for; nor shall it make any commercial gain by sharing  the same with any 
third party including its affiliates or associates. 
(d) The intermediary shall have the ultimate responsib ility for the KYC of its clients, by  
undertaking enhanced KYC measures commensurate with the risk profile of its clients. 
30[(e) The intermediary shall integrate its systems with the KRA to facilitate seamless movement 
of KYC documents to and from the intermediary to the KRA.] 
 
31[Sharing of KYC information in the financial sector. 
16A. (1) The entities, regulated by other regulators in the financial sector specified by the Board 
from time to time, may access the system of KRA for undertaking KYC of thei r clients who 
engage them for financial services.  
(2) The provisions of these regulations shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the entities regulated by 
other regulators specified in sub-regulation (1).  
(3) The system of KRA may be connected with any centra l KYC registry authorised by the 
Central Government for the purpose of collation and sharing of the KYC information in the 
financial sector.] 
 
32[Dispute Resolution. 
16B. All claims, differences or disputes between a KRA and an Intermediary arising out of or in 
relation to the activities of the KRA in the securities market shall be submitted to a dispute 
resolution mechanism that includes mediation and/or conciliation and/or arbitration, in 
accordance with the procedure specified by the Board.] 
 
33[Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
16C. (1) The KRA shall redress investor grievances promptly but not later than twenty -one 
calendar days from the date of receipt of the grievance and in such manner as may be specified 
by the Board. 
(2) The Board may also recognize a body corporate for handling and monitoring the process of 
grievance redressal within such time and in such manner as may be specified.] 
                                                           
30 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency}  
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022. 
31 Inserted by the SEBI {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency} (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 11-8-2014. 
32 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f., 04-07-2023. 
33 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023.

[Page 11]
Power of the Board to issue clarifications 
17. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or in terpretation of these regulations,  
the Board shall have the power to issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of notes or  
circulars which shall be binding on the KRA and the intermediaries.  
 
CHAPTER IV 
INSPECTION of KRA 
Board's right to inspect 
18. (1) The Board may appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake  
inspection of the books of accounts, records, documents, infrastructure, systems and procedures, 
of a KRA, for any purpose specified in sub-regulation (2). 
(2) The Board may inspect a KRA for the following purposes: 
(a) that the books of accounts, records and KYC documents, 34[as specified by the Board from 
time to time], are being maintained by the KRA; 
(b) to look into the complaints received by the KRA from clients or any other person; 
(c) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied with; 
(d) to ascertain whether the systems, procedures and safeguards being followed by a  KRA are 
adequate; 
(e) to ensure that privacy of clients’ data is maintained and the same is not shared with any other 
agency/associates in violation of these regulations; 
(f) to ensure that the affairs of a KRA are being conducted in a manner which are in the interest 
of the investors and securities market. 
 
Notice before inspection 
19. (1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 19, the Board shall give not less than  
10 days notice to the KRA, for that purpose. 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied  that 
in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in  writing 
direct that the inspection of the affairs of the KRA be taken up without such notice. 
(3) On being empowered by the Board, the inspecting authority shall under take inspection and 
the KRA against whom an inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge his  
obligations as provided under regulation 20. 
 
                                                           
34 The words “as prescribed by the Board ” substituted with “ as specified by the Board from time to time ” by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration  Agency} (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022.

[Page 12]
Obligations upon inspection by the Board 
20. (1) It shall be the duty of the KRA whose affairs are bei ng inspected, and of every director, 
officer and employee thereof, to produce to the inspecting authority such books, accounts,  
records and other documents in its custody or control and furnish him with such statements and 
information relating to its activ ities as a KRA, within such reasonable period as the  inspecting 
authority may require. 
(2) The KRA shall allow the inspecting authority to have reasonable access to the premises  
occupied by it or by any other person on their behalf and also extend reasonab le facility for  
examining any books, records, documents and computer data in the possession of the KRA or 
any other person on their behalf and also provide copies of the documents or other materials  
which, in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant for the purposes of the inspection. 
(3) The inspecting authority, in the course of inspection, shall be entitled to examine or to record 
the statements of any director, officer or employee of the KRA. 
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of the KRA to give to the inspecting 
authority all assistance in connection with the inspection, which the inspecting  authority may 
reasonably require. 
 
Submission of Report to the Board 
21. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as poss ible, on completion of the inspection, submit 
a report to the Board: 
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board the inspecting authority shall submit interim 
reports. 
 
Communication of findings, etc. 
22. (1) The Board shall, after consideration of the  inspection report, communicate the findings 
of the inspecting authority to the KRA, seek its comments on the same and if required, give it an 
opportunity of being heard. 
(2) On receipt of the reply, if any, from the KRA, the Board may call upon him to tak e such 
measures, as the Board may deem fit, in the interest of the securities market and for due  
compliance with the provisions of the Act, and these regulations. 
Action on inspection report 
23. The Board shall after consideration of the inspection report take such action as provided  
under Chapter V of the Intermediaries Regulations and in terms of the Act. 
 
Appointment of Auditor 
24. (1) The Board shall have the power to appoint a qualified independent auditor to inspect, into 
the books of accounts, records, documents, infrastructures, systems and procedures of a KRA.

[Page 13]
(2) The Board shall be entitled to recover from the KRA such expenses including fees paid to  
the auditors, as may be incurred by it for the purposes of inspecting the books of accounts,  
records, documents, infrastructures, systems and procedures of the KRA. 
 
CHAPTER V 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 
Liability for action in case of default 
25. A KRA shall be liable for action if it – 
(a) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, and these regulations; 
(b) fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as a KRA as required under  these 
regulations; 
(c) does not co-operate in any inspection or investigation or enquiry conducted by the Board; 
(d) fails to comply with any direction of the Board; 
(e) fails to pay the requisite fees to the Board; 
and shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Chapter V of the Intermediaries 
Regulations. 
 
35[CHAPTER VI 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
26. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any 
of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve 
months, for furthering innovation 36[***] relating to testing new products, processes, services, 
business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets. 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant 
satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied 
with on a continuous basis. 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live testing 
environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on 
a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the 
securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 
                                                           
35 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17 -04-2020. 
36 The words “in technological aspects” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulator y 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021.

[Page 14]


[Page 15]
SCHEDULE I 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
{KYC (KNOW YOUR CLIENT) REGISTRATION AGENCY} REGULATIONS, 2011 
[Regulation 3] 
FORM A 
Application for grant of certificate of 37[***] registration 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING UP FORM – 
1. Applicants must submit to the Board a completed application form together with appropriate  
supporting documents and applicable application fees. Supporting documents should be 38[self-
attested]. 
2. This application form should be filled in accordance with the regulations. 
3. Application for registration will be considered, only if it is complete in all respects. 
4. All answers must be typed. 
5. Information which needs to be supplied in more detail may be given on separate sheets which 
should be attached to the application form. 
6. All signatures on the application must be original. 
7. Every page of the form as well as every additional sheet must be initialed by the authorised  
signatory of the applicant. 
 
Part I 
1. General details of the applicant and its affiliates: Management Compliance 
Matrix/Structure 
1.1. Name of the applicant: 
1.2. Address of the registered office, address for correspondence, telephone numbers, fax  
numbers, e-mail, website, name and telephone number of the contact person, address of branch  
office, if any: 
1.3. Date and place of incorporation/establishment and registration number given by the  
Registrar of Companies or any other authority: 
1.4. Legal status of the applicant and the law, under which it is incorporated, established or  
registered, if any includin g where the applicant is a listed entity, the details of the exchanges  
(whether in India or abroad) where the applicant is listed: 
                                                           
37 The words “initial or permanent” Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions 
Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
38 Substituted for the words “ attested as true by a  notary public” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Attestation of Documents) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 28-11-2024.

[Page 16]
1.5. Brief description of the principal activity of the applicant: (along with copies of the  
constitutional documents of the applicant) 
1.6. Year of commencement of such activities ( if applicable): 
1.7. Shareholding pattern of the applicant (please set out the names of all such persons who hold 
whether directly or indirectly more than 5% of the shareholding or voting rights in the company): 
Name of the shareholder No. of Shares [% of shareholding] / [% of 
voting rights] 
   
 
Where control over the applicant is exercised by a person by way of an agreement or  
arrangement, details and documentation in relation to such agreement or arrangement as the case 
may be. 
1.8. Details of significant affiliates of the applicant operating in India or abroad and activities  
carried out by them including details as regards the legal status of each such affiliates and the  
law, under which it is incorporated, established or registered, if any. 
Legal Status and details of registration  
Name  
Address  
Telephone no  
Fax No  
E mail address  
 
1.9 The Category to which the applicant belongs in terms of Regulation 6: 
1.10 Networth of the applicant for the past three financial years(enclose copy of balance sheet  
and a copy of the latest networth certified by a practicing chartered accountant 39[having a valid 
certificate of practice under sub section (1) of section 6 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 
(38 of 1949)]) 
1.11 Whether any disciplinary /penal action has been taken by SEBI/any other statutory authority 
in the last five years against the applicant or its parent company: If so, furnish details including  
status of the proceedings and whether the penalty has been paid 
 
FORM B 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
{KYC (KNOW YOUR CLIENT) REGISTRATION AGENCY} REGULATIONS, 2011 
                                                           
39 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency}  
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 28-01-2022.

[Page 17]
[Regulations 7 40[***]] 
Certificate of Registration 
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1A) of section 12 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the regulations made thereunder the Board hereby 
grants an 41[***] certificate of registration to _________________________________ 
as a KYC Registration Agency, subject to the conditions specified in the Act and in the 
regulations made thereunder. 
II. Registration Number for the KYC Registration Agency is IN/....../……./…..../.... 
III. 42[This certificate of registration shall be valid unless it is suspended or c ancelled by the 
Board.]  
 
 
Date: 
Place: Mumbai 
By Order 
For and on behalf of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Authorised Signatory 
 
SCHEDULE II 
PAYMENT OF FEES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (KYC REGISTRATION 
AGENCY) 
REGULATIONS, 2011 
[Regulations 7 43[***] ] 
PART A 
                                                           
40 The words “and 8” Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration 
Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
41 The words “initial/permanent” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
42 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration  Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to substitution paragraph III read as under: 
“III.This certificate of registration shall be valid  from …. to …./ for permanent , unless  suspended or cancelled by 
the Board.” 
43 The words “and 8” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration 
Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.

[Page 18]
APPLICATION FEES, REGISTRATION FEES AND ANNUAL FEES 
S.N  Amount in Rupees 
 
1 Application fees (non -refundable) payable by KRA 
for initial and permanent registration 
50000 
 
2 44[***] Registration fees payable by KRA 100000 
3 Annual fees payable by KRA 100000 
 
 
 
PART B 
Manner of Payment of Application, Registration and Annual Fees  
Fees to be paid by KRA 
Manner of payment –45 [The fees shall be paid by way of direct credit in the bank account 
through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS 46[ or online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other 
mode as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
The application fee referred to in Part A shall be paid at the time of filing application. The  
registration fee referred to in Part A shall be paid by the KRA within fifteen days from the date 
of receipt of intimation from the Board. The Annual fee shall be paid within 30 days of the end  
of the financial year. 
 
 
SCHEDULE - III 
CODE OF CONDUCT 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA {KYC (KNOW YOUR CLIENT) 
REGISTRATION AGENCY} REGULATIONS, 2011 
[Regulation 10] 
1. A KRA shall make all efforts to protect the interest of its clients. 
2. A KRA shall maintain high standards of integrity, dignity and fairness in the conduct of its 
                                                           
44 The words “initial and permanent” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions 
Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
45 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 6-3-2017.  
46  Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f            
01-04-2023 for the words “*[or any other mode allowed by RBI or by] demand draft or bankers cheque payable to 
the "Securities and Exchange Board of India" at Mumbai or at the respective regional office .” 
*[Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 6-3-2017.]

[Page 19]
business. 
3. A KRA shall fulfill its obligations in a prompt, ethical and professional manner. 
4. A KRA shall at all times exercise due diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent 
professional judgment. 
5. A KRA shall ensure that any change in registration status/any penal action taken by Board or 
any material change in financial position which may adversely affect the interests of clients is  
promptly displayed on its website. 
6. A KRA shall not divulge to anybody either orally or in writing, directly or indirectly,  any 
confidential information about the clients which has come to its knowledge, without taking prior 
permission of its clients, except where such disclosures are required to be made in  compliance 
with any law for the time being in force. 
7. A KRA shall not indulge in any unfair competition. 
8. A KRA shall display on its website adequate and appropriate information about its business,  
including contact details of persons and services available to clients. 
9. A KRA shall ensure that grievances of clients are  redressed in a timely and appropriate  
manner; 
10. A KRA shall make reasonable efforts to avoid misrepresentation and ensure that the  
information provided to the clients and intermediaries is not misleading. 
11. A KRA shall abide by the provisions of the Act and the rules, regulations issued by the  
Government and the Board, from time to time, as may be applicable. 
12. A KRA shall not make untrue statement or suppress any material fact in any documents,  
reports, papers or information furnished to the Board. 
13. A KRA shall ensure that the Board is promptly informed about any action, legal proceeding, 
etc., initiated against it in respect of any material breach or non -compliance by it, of any law,  
rules, regulations and directions of the Board or of any other regulatory body. 
14. (a) A KRA or any of his employees shall not render, directly or indirectly, any investment  
advice about any security in the publicly accessible media. 
(b) A KRA shall not make a recommendation to any client who might be expected to rely thereon 
to acquire, dispose of or retain any securities. 
15. A KRA shall ensure that any person it employs or appoints to conduct business is fit and  
proper and otherwise qualified to act, in the capacity so employed or appointed including having 
relevant professional training or experience. 
16. A KRA shall have internal control procedures and financial and operational capabilities  
which can be reasonably expected to protect its operations, its clients from financial loss arising 
from theft, fraud, and other dishonest acts, professional misconduct or omissions. 
17. A KRA shall be responsible for the acts or omissions of its employees in respect to the  
conduct of its business. 
18. A KRA shall provide adequate freedom and powers to its compliance officer for the effective 
discharge of its duties.

[Page 20]
19. A KRA shall ensure that the senior management, particularly decision makers have access 
to all relevant information about the business on a timely basis. 
20. A KRA shall ensure that good corporate policies and corporate governance are in place. 
21. A KRA should have adequately trained staff and arrangements to render fair, prompt and  
competence services to its clients. 
22. A KRA shall develop its own internal code of conduct for governing its internal operation s 
and laying down its standards of appropriate conduct for its employees and officers in the  
carrying out of their duties. Such a code may extend to the maintenance of professional  
excellence and standards, integrity, confidentiality, objectivity, avoidance of conflict of interests, 
disclosure of shareholdings and interests, etc. 
23. A KRA shall not be party to— 
(a) creation of false market; 
(b) price rigging or manipulation; 
(c) passing of unpublished price sensitive information in respect of securities wh ich are listed  
and proposed to be listed in any stock exchange to any person or intermediary. 
24. A KRA shall maintain proper inward and outward system for all types of mail received and  
dispatched in all forms. 
25. A KRA shall follow maker-checker concept in its activities to ensure accuracy of data. 
26. A KRA shall not indulge in manipulative, fraudulent practices in the process of identification, 
verification and updation of a Client’s KYC information with a view to distort  market 
equilibrium or making personal gains. 
 
 
U. K. SINHA 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

[Page 21]
Note: 
 
1. The SEBI {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency} Regulations, 2011 was 
published in the Gazette of India on 02 December, 2011 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2011-
12/29/36772. 
 
2. The SEBI {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency} Regulations, 2011 was 
amended on- 
 
(a) 22nd March, 2013 by SEBI {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency} 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2013 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2012-13/35/6998. 
(b) 13th March, 2014 by SEBI {KYC  (Know Your Client) Registration Agency} 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2014 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2013-14/46/522. 
(c) 11th August, 2014 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know 
Your Client) Registration Agency} (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2014 vide 
No. LAD-NRO/GN/2014-15/05/23483. 
(d) 8th December, 2016 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in 
Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016 vide No. SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/023. 
(e) 6th March 2017, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees 
and Mode of Payment)  (Amendment) Regulations, 2017 vide No. 
SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2016-17/037 read with 29th March 2017, by the Securities 
and Exchange  Board of India  (Payment of Fees and  Mode of Payment) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2017 vide Notification No. LAD -NRO/GN/2016-
17/038. 
(f) 17th April, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide Notification  No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2020/10. 
(g) 3rd August, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide Notification No. SEBI/LAD -
NRO/GN/2021/30. 
(h) 29th January, 2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know 
Your Client) Registration  Agency} (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide No. 
LAD-NRO/GN/2022/72. 
(i) 17th January, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in 
Control in Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. LAD -
NRO/GN/2023/115. 
(j) 07th February, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of 
Fees and Mode of Paymen t) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. LAD -
NRO/GN/2023/121.

[Page 22]
(k) 04th July, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Dispute Resolution Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. LAD-
NRO/GN/2023/137. 
(l) 18th August, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism ) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. 
LAD-NRO/GN/2023/146. 
(m) 28th November, 2024 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Attestation 
of Documents) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 vide No. LAD -
NRO/GN/2024/212. 
(n) 10th February, 2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor 
Charter) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide No. LAD-NRO/GN/2025/228. 
 
*** 
[This note does not form a part of the regulations.]
