[Page 1]
Page 1 of 72  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (PORTFOLIO MANAGERS) 
REGULATIONS, 2020 
 
Amended up to September 3, 2025 
No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2020/03 - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
Section 30 read with sub-section (1) of section 11, clause (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 11 and 
sub-section (1) of Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 
1992), the Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regulations, 
namely: ─ 
 
CHAPTER I 
 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement.  
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio 
Managers) Regulations, 2020. 
 
(2) These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 
 
Definitions. 
2.  (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, ─ 
 
(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
 
1[(aa) “accreditation agency” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (aa) of 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012; 
 
(ab) “accredited investor” means any person who fulfils the eligibility criteria as specified by 
                                                
1 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 03.08.2021.

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 72  
the Board and is granted a certificate of accreditation by an accreditation agency;] 
 
2[(ac) “Alternative Investment Fund” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause 
(b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012;] 
 
(b)    “body corporate” shall have the meaning assigned to it under sub-section (11) of Section 
2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) as amended from time to time; 
 
(c)     “certificate” means a certificate of registration issued by the Board; 
 
3[***] 
 
4[(e)   “Change in control” in case of a body corporate –  
(A) if its shares are listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be construed with 
reference to the definition of control in terms of regulations framed under clause 
(h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act;  
(B)    if its shares are not listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be construed 
with reference to the definition of control as provided in sub-section (27) of 
Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);] 
(f) “chartered accountant" means a chartered accountant as defined in clause (b) of sub-
                                                
2 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021. 
3 Clause (d) omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Control in Intermediaries) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 17-1-2023. 
4 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Control in Intermediaries) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 17-1-2023. Prior to the substitution, clause (e) read as under: 
    ““change in control”, in relation to a portfolio manager being a body corporate, shall be construed with 
reference to : ─ 
(i)  the definition of control in terms of Regulation 2(1)(e) of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 as amended from time to time, if its shares are listed on any recognized stock 
exchange; 
(ii)  in any other case, change in the controlling interest in the body corporate; 
Explanation. ─ For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means,  
(A)  an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of at least fifty-one percent of voting rights in the 
body corporate; 
(B)  right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management directly or indirectly.”

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 72  
section (1) of section 2 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949) and who has 
obtained a certificate of practice under sub-section (1) of section 6 of that Act; 
5[(fa) “Co-investment Portfolio Manager” means a Portfolio Manager who is a Manager of a 
Category I or Category II Alternative Investment Fund(s); and: 
(i) provides services only to the investors of such Category 
I or  Category II Alternative Investment Fund(s); and 
(ii) makes investment only in unlisted securities of investee 
companies where such Category I or Category II Alternative Investment Fund(s) 
make investments: 
Provided that the Co-investment Portfolio Manager may provide services to investors from 
any other Category I or Category II Alternative Investment Fund(s) which are managed by 
them and are also sponsored by the same Sponsor(s);] 
 
(g) “discretionary portfolio manager” means a portfolio manager who under a contract 
relating to portfolio management, exercises or may exercise, any degree of discretion as 
to the investment of funds or management of the portfolio of securities of the client, as 
the case may be; 
 
(h) “eligible fund manager” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in                            
sub-section (4) of Section 9A of the Income-tax Act, 1961; 
 
(i) “eligible investment fund” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in                          
sub-section (3) of Section 9A of the Income-tax Act, 1961; 
 
(j) "form" means a form specified in Schedule I; 
 
(k) “goods” means the goods notified by the Central Government under clause (bc) of        
section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and forming the underlying of 
any commodity derivative; 
                                                
5 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021.

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 72  
 
(l)   "inspecting authority" means one or more persons appointed by the Board to exercise 
powers conferred under Chapter V; 
 
6[(la) “large value accredited investor” means an accredited investor who has entered into an 
agreement with the portfolio manager for a minimum investment amount of ten crore rupees;] 
 
7[(lb) “investee company” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (o) of sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012; 
 
(lc) “Manager” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (q) of sub-regulation 
(1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment 
Funds) Regulations, 2012;] 
 
(m)   “NISM” means the National Institute of Securities Market established by the Board; 
 
(n)     “portfolio” means the total holdings of securities and goods belonging to any person; 
 
(o)    “portfolio manager” means a body corporate, which pursuant to a contract with a client, 
advises or directs or undertakes on behalf of the client (whether as a discretionary portfolio 
manager or otherwise) the management or administration of a portfolio of securities or goods 
or funds of the client, as the case may be: 
 
Provided that the Portfolio Manager may deal in goods received in delivery against physical 
settlement of commodity derivatives. 
 
(p)    “principal officer” means an employee of the portfolio manager who has been 
designated as such by the portfolio manager and is responsible for: - 
                                                
6 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 03.08.2021. 
7 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021.

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 72  
(i) the decisions made by the portfolio manager for the management or administration of 
portfolio of securities or the funds of the client, as the case may be; and 
(ii) all other operations of the portfolio manager. 
 8[(pa) “related party” in relation to a portfolio manager, means— 
(i) a director, partner or his relative; 
(ii) a key managerial personnel or his relative; 
(iii) a firm, in which a director, partner, manager or his relative is a partner; 
(iv) a private company in which a director, partner or manager or his relative is a 
member or director; 
(v) a public company in which a director, partner or manager is a director or 
holds along with his relatives, more than two per cent. of its paid-up share capital; 
(vi) any body corporate whose board of directors, managing director or manager 
is accustomed to act in accordance with the advice, directions or instructions of a 
director, partner or manager; 
(vii) any person on whose advice, directions or instructions a director, partner or 
manager is accustomed to act: 
Provided that nothing in sub-clauses (vi) and (vii) shall apply to the advice, directions or 
instructions given in a professional capacity; 
(viii) any body corporate which is— 
(A) a holding, subsidiary or an associate company of the portfolio manager; or 
(B) a subsidiary of a holding company to which the portfolio manager is also a 
subsidiary; 
(C) an investing company or the venturer of the portfolio manager; 
Explanation.—For the purpose of this clause, “investing company or the venturer of a 
portfolio manager” means a body corporate whose investment in the portfolio manager 
would result in the portfolio manager becoming an associate of the body corporate. 
(ix) a related party as defined under the applicable accounting standards; 
(x) such other person as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that, 
                                                
8 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 
w.e.f. 20-09.2022.

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 72  
(a) any person or entity forming a part of the promoter or promoter group of the listed 
entity; or  
(b) any person or any entity, holding equity shares:  
(i) of twenty per cent or more; or  
(ii) of ten per cent or more, with effect from April 1, 2023; 
in the listed entity either directly or on a beneficial interest basis as provided 
under section 89 of the Companies Act, 2013, at any time, during the immediate 
preceding financial year; 
       shall be deemed to be a related party;] 
 
(q)   “securities lending” means securities lending as per the Securities Lending Scheme, 
1997 specified by the Board. 
 
9[(r) “Sponsor” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (w) of sub-regulation 
(1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment 
Funds) Regulations, 2012;] 
 
     (2)  Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act 
shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act. 
 
 
 
CHAPTER II 
 
REGISTRATION OF PORTFOLIO MANAGERS 
 
Registration as portfolio manager.  
3.  No person shall act as a portfolio manager unless it has obtained a certificate of registration 
                                                
9 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021.

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 72  
from the Board under these regulations. 
 
Application for grant of certificate.  
4.  (1) An application by a person for the grant of a certificate shall be made to the Board in 
Form A of Schedule I and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee, as specified 
in para (1) of Schedule II. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), any application made by a person 
prior to coming into force of these regulations containing such particulars or as near thereto as 
mentioned in Form A of Schedule I shall be treated as an application made in pursuance of sub- 
regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly. 
 
Application to conform to the requirements.  
5.  Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 4, any application, which is not 
complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions specified in the form, shall be 
rejected: 
 
Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given an opportunity 
to remove objections indicated by the Board, within the time specified, not later than 3 weeks. 
 
Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation. 
6.  (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification 
regarding matters relevant to his activity of a portfolio manager for the purposes of disposal of 
the application. 
 
(2) The applicant or its principal officer shall, if so required, appear before the Board for 
personal representation. 
 
Consideration of application. 
7.   (1) For considering the grant of certificate of registration to the applicant, the Board shall 
take into account all matters which it deems relevant to the activities relating to portfolio

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 72  
management. 
 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, the Board shall consider 
whether :- 
 
(a) the applicant is a body corporate; 
 
(b) the applicant has the necessary infrastructure like adequate office space, 
equipment and the manpower to effectively discharge the activities of a portfolio 
manager; 
 
(c) the applicant has appointed a compliance officer; 
 
(d) the principal officer of the applicant has– 
10[(i) a professional qualification in finance, law, accountancy or business management 
from a university or an institution recognized by the Central Government or any State 
Government or a foreign university or a professional qualification by completing a Post 
Graduate Program in the Securities Market (Portfolio Management) from NISM of a 
duration not less than one year or a professional qualification by obtaining a CFA charter 
from the CFA institute;] 
(ii) experience of at least five years in related activities in the securities market 
including in a portfolio manager, stock broker, investment advisor, research analyst or as 
a fund manager; and 
(iii) the relevant NISM certification as specified by the Board from time to time 11[:] 
 
Provided that at least 2 years of relevant experience is in portfolio management or 
                                                
10 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 
w.e.f 16.03.2021. Prior to its substitution, clause (d) read as under:  
“a professional qualification in finance, law, accountancy or business management from a university or an institution 
recognized by the Central Government or any State Government or a foreign university or a CFA charter from the 
CFA institute;” 
11 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f 16.03.2021.

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 72  
investment advisory services or in the areas related to fund management12[:] 
Provided further that a portfolio manager, who was granted a certificate of registration 
prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio 
Managers) Regulations, 2020, shall comply with sub clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (d) of 
sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 within thirty-six months from such 
commencement13[:] 
 
14[Provided further that a fresh NISM certification shall be obtained before expiry of the 
validity of the existing certification to ensure continuity in compliance with the 
certification requirements 15[:]] 
 
16[Provided further that the Co-investment Portfolio Manager may designate a member 
of the Key Investment Team of the Manager as the principal officer who fulfils either of 
the criteria specified in clause (g) of regulation 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012, and in that case the 
requirement under clause (d) shall not apply to the principal officer so appointed;] 
 
(e) In addition to the Principal Officer and Compliance Officer, the applicant has 
in its employment at least one person with the following qualifications :- 
 
(i)  graduation from a university or an institution recognized by the Central 
Government or any State Government or a foreign university; and 
 
(ii) an experience of at least two years in related activities in the securities market 
including in a portfolio manager, stock broker, investment advisor or as a fund manager: 
 
                                                
12 Ibid 
13 Ibid. 
14 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 
w.e.f 16.03.2021. 
15 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 for the symbol “.” w.e.f  08.12.2021.  
16 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021.

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 72  
Provided that any employee of the Portfolio Manager who has decision making 
authority related to fund management shall have the same 17[minimum qualifications, 
experience and certification] as specified for the Principal Officer in clause (d) of sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 7: 
 
Provided further that a portfolio manager, who was granted a certificate of registration 
prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio 
Managers) Regulations, 2020, shall comply with sub clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (e) of 
sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 within twelve months from such commencement 18[:] 
 
19[Provided further that the requirement under clause(e) above shall not apply to Co-
investment Portfolio Manager;] 
 
(f) any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board against a person directly or 
indirectly connected with the applicant under the Act or the rules or the regulations 
made thereunder; 
 
Explanation. ─ For the purposes of sub-clause (f), the expression "person directly or 
indirectly connected" means any person being an associate, subsidiary company or an 
associate company within the meaning of sub-section (6) of section 2 of the Companies 
Act, 2013; 
 
(g) the applicant fulfills the net worth requirement specified in regulation 9 20[:] 
21[Provided that the requirement under clause(g) shall not apply to the Co-investment 
Portfolio Manager;] 
                                                
17 Substituted for “minimum qualifications and experience” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f 16.03.2021. 
18 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 for the symbol “;” w.e.f  08.12.2021. 
19 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021. 
20 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 for the symbol “;” w.e.f  08.12.2021.  
21 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021.

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 72  
 
(h) the applicant, its director or partner, principal officer, compliance officer or the 
employee as specified in clause (e) is involved in any litigation connected with the 
securities market that has an adverse bearing on the business of the applicant; 
 
(i) the applicant, its director or partner, principal officer, compliance officer or the 
employee as specified in clause (e) has at any time been convicted for any offence 
involving moral turpitude or has been found guilty of any economic offence; 
 
(j) the applicant is a fit and proper person;  
 
(k) the grant of certificate to the applicant is in the interest of investors. 
  
Criteria for fit and proper person.  
8.   For the purposes of determining whether an applicant or the portfolio manager is a fit and 
proper person, the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. 
 
Net worth Requirement. 
9.   The net worth referred to in clause (g) of regulation 7 shall not be less than five crore rupees: 
Provided that a portfolio manager, who was granted a certificate of registration prior to the 
commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 
2020, shall raise its net worth to not less than five crore rupees within thirty-six months from 
such commencement: 
Provided further that the portfolio manager shall fulfill the net worth requirements under these 
regulations, separately and independently, of the capital adequacy requirements, if any, for each 
activity undertaken by it under the relevant regulations22[:] 
23[Provided further that the requirement under this regulation shall not apply to the Co-
                                                
22 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 for the symbol “.” w.e.f  08.12.2021.  
23 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations,

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 72  
investment Portfolio Manager.] 
Explanation. ─ For the purposes of this regulation, "net worth" means the aggregate value of 
paid up equity capital plus free reserves (excluding reserves created out of revaluation) reduced 
by the aggregate value of accumulated losses and deferred expenditure not written off, including 
miscellaneous expenses not written off. 
 
Procedure for registration.  
10.   (1)  The Board on being satisfied that the applicant fulfils the requirements specified in 
regulation 7 shall send an intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of 
registration fees as specified in paragraph (2) of Schedule II grant a certificate in Form B  of 
Schedule I. 
 
(2) The portfolio manager who has already been granted a certificate of registration by the 
Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio 
Managers) Regulations, 2020 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, 
in terms of sub- regulation (1). 
 
Conditions of registration. 
11. The certificate of registration granted under regulation 10 shall, inter alia, be subject to the 
following conditions, namely: - 
(a) the portfolio manager shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations;  
 24[(aa) the portfolio manager shall obtain prior approval of the Board in case of change 
in control in such manner as may be specified by the Board] 
(b) the portfolio manager shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any 
information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or 
misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in the 
information already submitted;   
(c) the portfolio manager shall pay the fees for registration in the manner provided in 
                                                                                                                                                       
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021. 
24 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  26.04.2021.

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 72  
these regulations; 
(d) the portfolio manager shall take adequate steps for redressal of grievances of the 
investors within 25[twenty-one calendar days]  of the date of the receipt of the 
complaint and keep the Board informed about the number, nature and other 
particulars of the complaints received; and 
(e) the portfolio manager shall maintain the net worth specified in regulation 9 at all 
times during the period of the certificate26[:] 
 27[Provided that the requirement under clause(e) shall not apply to Co-investment 
Portfolio Manager.] 
 
Period of validity of certificate.  
12.  The certificate of registration granted under regulation 10 shall be valid unless it is 
suspended or cancelled by the Board. 
 
Procedure where registration is refused 
13.  (1) After considering an application made under regulation 4, if the Board is of the opinion 
that a certificate should not be granted to the applicant, it may reject the application after giving 
the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 
 
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant 
within thirty days of such decision. 
 
Effect of refusal to grant certificate.  
14.   Any portfolio manager whose application for a certificate has been refused by the Board 
shall on and from the date of the receipt of the communication under sub- regulation (2) of 
regulation 13 cease to carry on any activity as portfolio manager. 
 
                                                
25 Substituted for “one month” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023.  
26 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 for the symbol “.” w.e.f  08.12.2021.  
27 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021.

[Page 14]
Page 14 of 72  
 
Payment of fees, and the consequences of failure to pay fees. 
15.   (1) Every applicant eligible for grant of a certificate shall pay such fees within 15 days of 
receiving intimation from the Board and in such manner as specified in       Schedule II: 
 
Provided that the Board may on sufficient cause being shown allow the portfolio manager to pay 
such fees at any time before the expiry of one month from the date on which such fees become 
due. 
 
(2)  Where a portfolio manager fails to pay the fees as provided in Schedule II, the Board may 
suspend the certificate, whereupon the portfolio manager shall forthwith cease to carry on the 
activity as a portfolio manager for the period during which the suspension subsists. 
 
CHAPTER III 
 
ELIGIBLE FUND MANAGERS 
Applicability. 
16.  (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to eligible fund managers exclusively, 
pertaining to their activities as portfolio managers to eligible investment funds. 
 
 (2) All other provisions of these regulations and the guidelines and circulars issued thereunder, 
unless the context otherwise requires or is repugnant to the provisions of this chapter, shall apply 
to eligible fund managers in relation to their activities as portfolio managers to eligible 
investment funds. 
 
Procedure to be followed by an existing Portfolio Manager. 
17.   An existing portfolio manager may act as a portfolio manager to an eligible investment fund 
if: 
 
(a)   it fulfills all the conditions specified in sub section (4) of Section 9A of the Income-
tax Act, 1961; and

[Page 15]
Page 15 of 72  
(b)      it intimates the Board prior to undertaking such activity and submit declarations as 
specified in clause (1) of Schedule VI. 
 
Procedure to be followed by an applicant for fresh registration. 
18.   An applicant who is a body corporate who intends to act as an eligible fund manager may 
be granted registration under regulation 10 if: 
 
(a)  it fulfills all the conditions specified in sub section (4) of Section 9A of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961; 
(b)  it complies with the requirements specified under Chapter II of these regulations, 
unless specified otherwise in this Chapter; 
(c)  it pays the fees as specified in Schedule II; and  
(d)   it provides a declaration to the Board as specified in paragraph (2) of      Schedule VI. 
 
Obligation and Responsibilities of Eligible Fund Managers. 
19.   An eligible fund manager shall be required to: - 
(1) comply with the requirements specified under Section 9A of the Income-tax Act, 
1961 or any amendment, notification, clarification, guideline issued thereunder;  
 
(2) offer discretionary or non-discretionary or advisory services or a combination 
thereof to eligible investment funds; 
 
(3) operate in accordance to its mutually agreed contract with the eligible investment 
funds; 
 
(4)         provide all material disclosures to eligible investment funds; 
 
(5) segregate funds and securities of each eligible investment fund; 
 
(6) segregate the funds and securities of eligible investment funds from those of its 
other clients;

[Page 16]
Page 16 of 72  
 
(7)          maintain and segregate its books and accounts pertaining to its activities as a 
portfolio manager to eligible investment funds and other clients; 
 
(8)          appoint a custodian:  
 
Provided that the requirement of compliance with this sub-regulation would not arise in 
case an eligible investment fund has already appointed a custodian under the applicable act 
or regulations; 
 
(9)         keep the funds of eligible investment funds in scheduled commercial banks; 
 
Provided that requirement of compliance with this sub-regulation would not arise in case 
an eligible investment fund does not intend to invest in Indian securities; 
 
(10) maintain any additional records as may be specified by the Board and disclose the 
same to the Board as and when required; 
 
(11) provide quarterly reports to the Board; 
 
(12) ensure compliance with the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and rules 
and regulations made thereunder; 
 
(13) abide by the provisions in these regulations and circulars / guidelines issued by 
the Board from time to time. 
 
Certain provisions not to apply. 
20.  The eligible fund managers shall be exempted from the following provisions pertaining to 
their activities as portfolio managers to eligible investment funds notwithstanding anything 
contained in these regulations, Schedules thereto or circulars issued thereunder: 
(i)     sub-regulation (1), (2), (3) and (4) of Regulation 22;

[Page 17]
Page 17 of 72  
(ii)    sub-regulation (2), (3), (4), (8) and (9) of Regulation 23; 
(iii)   clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 24; 
(iv)  clause (a) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 24; 
(v)    sub-regulation (7) of Regulation 24; 
(vi)   sub-regulation (11) of Regulation 24; 
(vii)  Regulation 26; 
(viii)  sub-regulation (3) of Regulation 30; 
(ix)    sub-regulation (1), (2), and (3) of Regulation 31; 
(x) Form C in Schedule I; and  
28[(xi)  Schedule IV.] 
 
CHAPTER IV 
 
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Code of Conduct.  
21.    Every portfolio manager shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in   Schedule III. 
 
Contract with clients and disclosures. 
22. (1) The portfolio manager shall, before taking up an assignment of management of funds and 
portfolio on behalf of a client, enter into an agreement in writing with such client that clearly 
defines the inter se relationship and sets out their mutual rights, liabilities and obligations 
relating to management of portfolio containing the details as specified in Schedule IV 29[:] 
30[Provided that the contents of agreement specified under Schedule IV of these regulations shall 
not apply to the agreement between the portfolio managers and the large value accredited 
investors.] 
                                                
28 Substituted for the words and symbols “(xi) Schedules IV and V.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 03.09.2025. 
 
29 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f. 03.08.2021. 
30 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 03.08.2021.

[Page 18]
Page 18 of 72  
 
31[(1A) The portfolio manager may make investments in the securities of its related parties or its 
associates only after obtaining the prior consent of the client in such manner as may be specified 
by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that the requirement for obtaining consent shall not apply to such portfolio managers as 
may be specified by the Board.] 
 
(2) The agreement between the portfolio manager and the client shall, inter alia, include the 
following :- 
( a ) the investment objectives and the services to be provided; 
( b ) period of the contract and provision of early termination, if any; 
( c ) investment approach, areas of investment and restrictions, if any, 
imposed by the client with regard to the investment in a particular company or 
industry; 
 
Explanation: An investment approach is a broad outlay of the type of securities and 
permissible instruments to be invested in by the portfolio manager for the customer, 
taking into account factors specific to clients and securities.  
 
( d ) type of instruments and proportion of exposure; 
( e ) tenure of portfolio investments; 
( f ) terms for early withdrawal of funds or securities by the clients; 
( g ) attendant risks involved in the management of the portfolio; 
( h ) amount to be invested subject to the restrictions provided under these 
regulations; 
( i ) procedure of settling client's account including form of repayment on 
maturity or early termination of contract; 
( j ) fees payable to the portfolio manager; 
( k ) the quantum and manner of fees payable by the client for each activity for 
                                                
31 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 
w.e.f. 20-09.2022.

[Page 19]
Page 19 of 72  
which service is rendered by the portfolio manager directly or indirectly (where such 
service is out sourced); 
( l ) custody of securities; 
( m ) in case of a discretionary portfolio manager; a condition that the liability of a 
client shall not exceed his investment with the portfolio manager; 
( n ) accounting terms, audit and furnishing of the reports to the clients as per the 
provisions of these regulations; and 
( o ) other terms of portfolio investment subject to these regulations: 
 
32[Provided that in case of the Co-investment Portfolio Manager, the terms of co-investment 
in an investee company by a co-investor, shall not be more favourable than the terms of 
investment of the Alternative Investment Fund: 
 
Provided further that in case of the Co-investment Portfolio Manager, the terms of exit from 
the Co-investment in an investee company including the timing of exit shall be identical to 
the terms applicable to that of exit of the Alternative Investment Fund: 
 
Provided further that in case of the Co-investment Portfolio Manager, the early withdrawal 
of funds by the co-investors with respect to Co-investment in investee companies shall be 
allowed to the extent that the Alternative Investment Fund has also made an exit from 
respective investment in such investee companies.] 
 
33[(3) The portfolio manager shall provide to the client, the Disclosure Document, in 
the format as may be specified by the Board, along with a certificate in Form C as 
specified in Schedule I, prior to entering into an agreement with the client as referred 
to in sub-regulation (1).] 
 
                                                
32 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021. 
33 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f 03.09.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as under:  
“The portfolio manager shall provide to the client, the Disclosure Document as specified in Schedule V, along with 
a certificate in Form C as specified in Schedule I, prior to entering into an agreement with the client as referred to in 
sub-regulation (1).”

[Page 20]
Page 20 of 72  
(4) The Disclosure Document, shall inter alia include the following :─ 
( a ) the quantum and manner of payment of fees payable by the client for each 
activity for which service is rendered by the portfolio manager directly or indirectly 
(where such service is out sourced); 
( b ) portfolio risks including risk specific to each investment approach offered by 
the portfolio manager; 
( c ) complete disclosures of transactions with related parties as per the accounting 
standards specified by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India; 
( d ) details of conflicts of interest related to services offered by group companies 
or associates of the portfolio manager; 
34[(da) the details of investment of client’s funds by the portfolio manager in the securities of 
its related parties or associates; 
(db) the details of diversification policy of the portfolio manager: 
Provided that the requirements specified above at clauses (da) and (db) above shall not apply 
to such portfolio managers as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided further that the Board may specify disclosure requirements other than the 
requirements specified at clauses (da) and (db) above;] 
 
( e ) the performance of the portfolio manager: 
Provided that the performance of a discretionary portfolio manager shall be calculated 
using ‘Time Weighted Rate of Return’ for the immediately preceding three years and in 
such cases performance indicators shall also be disclosed: 
35[Provided further that the performance of the Co-investment Portfolio Manager shall be 
calculated in the manner as agreed between the Co-investment Portfolio Manager and the 
client:] 
Provided further that the portfolio manager may be allowed to disclose performance 
segregated on the basis of investment approach; 
                                                
34 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 
w.e.f. 20-09.2022. 
35 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021.

[Page 21]
Page 21 of 72  
( f ) the audited financial statements of the portfolio manager for the immediately 
preceding three years. 
 
(5) The contents of the Disclosure Document shall be certified by an independent chartered 
accountant.  
 
(6) The portfolio manager shall ensure that a copy of Disclosure Document is available on the 
website of the portfolio manager at all times and as soon as the registration is granted 36[:] 
37[Provided that the requirement under this sub-regulation shall not apply to Co-investment 
Portfolio Manager.] 
 
(7) The portfolio manager shall file with the Board, a copy of the Disclosure Document after 
grant of certificate of registration before circulating it to any client or whenever any material 
change including change in the investment approach is effected. The portfolio manager shall file 
the disclosure document with the material change within 7 working days from the date of the 
change.  
 
(8) The portfolio manager shall file disclosure document along with the certificate in Form C as 
specified in Schedule I. 
 
(9) The portfolio manager shall disclose a change in the identity of the Principal Officer to the 
Board and the clients within 7 working days of effecting the change. 
 
(10) The portfolio manager shall report its performance uniformly in the disclosures to the 
Board, marketing materials and reports to the clients and on its website. 
 
(11) The portfolio manager shall charge an agreed fee from the clients for rendering portfolio 
management services without guaranteeing or assuring, either directly or indirectly, any return 
                                                
36 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 for the symbol “.” w.e.f  08.12.2021. 
37 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021.

[Page 22]
Page 22 of 72  
and the fee so charged may be a fixed fee or a return based fee or a combination of both: 
Provided that no up-front fees shall be charged by the portfolio manager directly or in-directly to 
the clients. 
 
(12) The portfolio manager shall disclose the range of fees charged under various heads in the 
disclosure document. 
 
38[Dispute Resolution. 
22A. All claims, differences or disputes between investors and the portfolio manager arising out 
of or in relation to the activities of the portfolio manager in the securities market shall be 
submitted to a dispute resolution mechanism that includes mediation and/or conciliation and/or 
arbitration, in accordance with the procedure specified by the Board.] 
 
General responsibilities of a Portfolio Manager. 
23. (1) The discretionary portfolio manager shall individually and independently manage the 
funds of each client in accordance with the needs of the client, in a manner which does not 
partake character of a Mutual Fund, whereas the non-discretionary portfolio manager shall 
manage the funds in accordance with the directions of the client. 
 
(2) The portfolio manager shall not accept from the client, funds or securities worth less than 
fifty lakh rupees: 
Provided that the minimum investment amount per client shall be applicable for new clients and 
fresh investments by existing clients: 
39[Provided further that subject to appropriate disclosures in the disclosure document and the 
terms agreed between the client and the portfolio manager, the requirement of minimum 
investment amount per client shall not apply to an accredited investor:] 
 
                                                
38 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 04-07-2023. 
39 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 03.08.2021.

[Page 23]
Page 23 of 72  
40[Provided further that the requirement of minimum investment amount per client shall not 
apply to the Co-investment Portfolio Manager:] 
Provided further that existing investments of clients, as on the date of notification of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020, may continue 
as such till maturity of the investment or as specified by the Board. 
 
(3) The portfolio manager shall act in a fiduciary capacity with regard to the client's funds. 
 
(4) The portfolio manager shall segregate each client’s holding in securities in separate accounts. 
(5) The portfolio manager shall keep the funds of all clients in a separate account to be 
maintained by it in a Scheduled Commercial Bank. 
 
Explanation. ─ For the purposes of this sub-regulation, the expression ‘Scheduled Commercial 
Bank’ means any bank included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 
(2 of 1934). 
 
(6) The portfolio manager shall transact in securities within the limitation placed by the client 
himself with regard to dealing in securities under the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India 
Act, 1934 (2 of 1934). 
 
(7) The portfolio manager shall not derive any direct or indirect benefit out of the client's funds 
or securities. 
 
(8) The portfolio manager shall not borrow funds or securities on behalf of the client. 
 
(9) The portfolio manager shall not lend securities held on behalf of the clients to a third person 
except as provided under these regulations. 
 
(10) The portfolio manager shall ensure proper and timely handling of complaints from his 
                                                
40 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021.

[Page 24]
Page 24 of 72  
clients and take appropriate action immediately. 
 
(11) The portfolio manager shall ensure that any person or entity involved in the distribution of 
its services is carrying out the distribution activities in compliance with these regulations and 
circulars issued thereunder from time to time. 
 
41[(12) The portfolio manager shall ensure compliance with the Investor Charter specified by the 
Board from time to time.] 
 
Management or administration of clients' portfolio. 
24.  (1) (a) The money or securities accepted by the portfolio manager shall not be invested or 
managed by the portfolio manager except in terms of the agreement between the 
portfolio manager and the client. 
(b) Any renewal of portfolio on maturity of the initial period shall be deemed as a 
fresh placement 42[:] 
43[Provided that the requirement under clause (b) shall not apply to the Co-investment 
Portfolio Manager.] 
(2)   Notwithstanding anything contained in the agreement referred to in regulation 22, the funds 
or securities can be withdrawn by the client before the maturity of the contract under the 
following circumstances, namely- 
 
(a) voluntary or compulsory termination of portfolio management services by the 
portfolio manager or the client44[:] 
45[Provided that clause(a) shall not apply in case of the Co-investment Portfolio Manager;] 
                                                
41 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Charter) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 
10-02-2025. 
42 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 for the symbol “.” w.e.f  08.12.2021. 
43 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021. 
44 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 for the symbol “;” w.e.f  08.12.2021.  
45 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations,

[Page 25]
Page 25 of 72  
 
(b) suspension or cancellation of the certificate of registration of the portfolio manager 
by the Board; 
 
(c) bankruptcy or liquidation of the portfolio manager. 
 
(3) The discretionary portfolio manager shall invest funds of his clients in the securities listed or 
traded on a recognized stock exchange, money market instruments, units of Mutual Funds and 
other securities as specified by Board from time to time, on behalf of their clients.  
 
Explanation. ─ For the purposes of this sub-regulation: "money market instruments" includes 
commercial paper, trade bill, treasury bills, certificate of deposit and usance bills. 
46[(3A) The portfolio manager shall ensure compliance with the prudential limits on investments 
as may be specified by the Board. 
(3B) The prudential limits, as specified under sub-regulation (3A), shall be applicable at the 
client level at the time of making investments by the portfolio managers. 
(3C) The portfolio manager shall not be allowed to invest clients’ funds in unrated securities of 
their related parties or their associates. 
Explanation. ─ For the purposes of sub-regulation (3C), the term "associate" shall mean– 
(i) a body corporate in which a director or partner of the portfolio manager 
holds, either individually or collectively, more than twenty percent of its paid-
up equity share capital or partnership interest, as the case may be; or 
(ii) a body corporate which holds, either individually or collectively, more than 
twenty percent of the paid-up equity share capital or partnership interest, as 
the case may be of the portfolio manager. 
(3D) The portfolio manager shall put in place an alert based system to monitor compliance with 
                                                                                                                                                       
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021. 
46 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 
w.e.f. 20-09.2022.

[Page 26]
Page 26 of 72  
the prudential limits on investments. 
 (3E) The portfolio manager shall ensure investment of its clients’ funds on the basis of the 
credit rating of securities as may be specified by the Board: 
Provided that the requirements under sub-regulations (3A), (3B), (3C) and (3E) shall not 
apply to investments made prior to the coming into force of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022: 
Provided further that the requirements under sub-regulations (3A), (3B), (3C), (3D) and 
(3E) shall not apply to such portfolio managers as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
(4) The portfolio manager offering non-discretionary or advisory services to clients may invest 
or provide advice for investment up to 25% of the assets under management of such clients in 
unlisted securities, in addition to the securities permitted for discretionary portfolio management.  
 
47[(4A) The portfolio manager may offer discretionary or non-discretionary or advisory services 
for investment up to hundred percent of the assets under management of the large value 
accredited investors in unlisted securities, subject to appropriate disclosures in the disclosure 
document and the terms agreed between the client and the portfolio manager.] 
 
48[(4B) The Co-investment Portfolio Manager shall invest hundred percent of the assets under 
management in unlisted securities of investee companies where Category I and Category II 
Alternative Investment Funds managed by it as Manager, make investment;] 
 
(5) Portfolio Managers may invest in units of Mutual Funds only through direct plan. 
 
(6) The portfolio manager while investing in units of Mutual Funds through direct plan shall not 
charge any kind of distribution related fees to the client. 
                                                
47 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f. 03.08.2021. 
48 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021.

[Page 27]
Page 27 of 72  
 
(7) The portfolio manager shall not leverage the portfolio of its clients for investment in 
derivatives. 
 
(8) The portfolio manager shall not deploy the clients' funds in bill discounting, badla financing 
or for the purpose of lending or placement with corporate or non-corporate bodies. 
 
(9) The portfolio manager shall not invest the clients’ funds in the portfolio managed or 
administered by another portfolio manager. 
 
(10) The portfolio manager shall not invest client’s fund based on the advice of any other entity. 
 
(11) The portfolio manager shall not while dealing with clients’ funds indulge in speculative 
transactions i.e, it shall not enter into any transaction for purchase or sale of any security which 
is periodically or ultimately settled otherwise than by actual delivery or transfer of security 
except the transactions in derivatives. 
 
(12) The portfolio manager shall, ordinarily purchase or sell securities separately for each client. 
However, in the event of aggregation of purchases or sales for economy of scale, inter se 
allocation shall be done on a pro rata basis and at weighted average price of the day's 
transactions. The portfolio manager shall not keep any open position in respect of allocation of 
sales or purchases effected in a day. 
 
(13) The portfolio manager shall not execute off market transfers in client’s account except: 
(a) for settlement of the clients’ own trades; 
(b) for providing margin/ collateral for clients’ own positions; 
(c) for dealing in unlisted securities in accordance with the regulations; 
(d) with specific consent of the client for each transaction; 
(e) for any other reason specified by the Board from time to time. 
 
(14) The portfolio manager shall segregate each clients' funds and portfolio of securities and 
keep them separately from his own funds and securities and be responsible for safekeeping of

[Page 28]
Page 28 of 72  
clients' funds and securities. 
 
(15) The portfolio manager shall not hold the securities belonging to the portfolio account, in its 
own name on behalf of its clients either by virtue of contract with clients or otherwise. 
 
(16) The portfolio manager may, subject to authorization by the client in writing, participate in 
securities lending. 
 
Foreign Portfolio Investor availing portfolio management services. 
25.  Foreign portfolio investors may avail of the services of a portfolio manager. 
 
Appointment of custodian.  
26.  Every portfolio manager shall appoint a custodian in respect of securities managed or 
administered by it: 
 
Provided that this regulation shall not apply to a portfolio manager who provides only advisory 
services49[:] 
50[Provided further that this regulation shall not apply to a Co-investment Portfolio Manager.] 
 
Maintenance of books of accounts, records, etc. 
27.   (1) Every portfolio manager shall keep and maintain the following books of accounts, 
records and documents namely: - 
 
(a) a copy of balance sheet at the end of each accounting period; 
(b) a copy of the profit and loss account for each accounting period; 
(c) a copy of the auditor’s report on the accounts for each accounting period; 
(d) a statement of financial position and; 
(e) records in support of every investment transaction or recommendation which 
                                                
49 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 for the symbol “.” w.e.f  08.12.2021.  
50 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021.

[Page 29]
Page 29 of 72  
will indicate the data, facts and opinion leading to that investment decision: 
 
Provided that such a record shall be maintained under the hands of the Principal 
Officer of the portfolio manager. 
 
(2) Every portfolio manager shall intimate to the Board the place where the books of accounts, 
records and documents are maintained. 
 
(3) Without prejudice to sub-regulation (1), every portfolio manager shall, after the end of each 
accounting period, furnish to the Board copies of the balance sheet, profit and loss account and 
such other documents for the preceding five accounting years as and when required by the Board. 
 
Submission of net worth certificate.  
28.    Every portfolio manager shall furnish to the Board a net worth certificate issued by a 
chartered accountant as and when required by the Board. 
 
Maintenance of books of accounts, records and other documents.  
29.  The portfolio manager shall preserve the books of account and other records and documents 
mentioned under this chapter for a minimum period of five years. 
 
Accounts and audit. 
30. (1)  (a) The portfolio manager shall maintain separate client-wise accounts. 
 
(b) The funds received from the clients, investments or disinvestments, all the credits to 
the account of the client like interest, dividend, bonus, or any other beneficial interest 
received on the investment and debits for expenses, if any, shall be properly accounted 
for and details thereof shall be properly reflected in the client's account. 
 
(c) The tax deducted at source as required under the provisions of the Income-Tax Act, 
1961, (43 of 1961) shall be recorded in the portfolio account.

[Page 30]
Page 30 of 72  
(2)  The books of account will be audited yearly by qualified auditor to ensure that the portfolio 
manager has followed proper accounting methods and procedures and that the portfolio manager 
has performed his duties in accordance with the law. A certificate to this effect shall, if so 
specified, be submitted to the Board within six months of close of portfolio manager's accounting 
period. 
 
(3) The portfolio accounts of the portfolio manager shall be audited annually by an independent 
chartered accountant and a copy of the certificate issued by the chartered accountant shall be 
given to the client. 
 
(4) The client may appoint a chartered accountant to audit the books and accounts of the portfolio 
manager relating to his transactions and the portfolio manager shall co-operate with such 
chartered accountant in course of the audit. 
 
Reports to be furnished to the client. 
31.   (1) The portfolio manager shall furnish periodically a report to the client, as agreed in the 
contract, but not exceeding a period of three months and as and when required by the client and 
such report shall contain the following details, namely: - 
 
(a) the composition and the value of the portfolio, description of securities and goods, 
number of securities, value of each security held in the portfolio, units of goods, 
value of goods, cash balance and aggregate value of the portfolio as on the date of 
report; 
 
(b) transactions undertaken during the period of report including date of transaction and 
details of purchases and sales; 
 
(c) beneficial interest received during that period in the form of interest, dividend, bonus 
shares, rights shares, etc; 
 
(d) expenses incurred in managing the portfolio of the client;

[Page 31]
Page 31 of 72  
 
(e) details of risk foreseen by the portfolio manager and the risk relating to the securities 
recommended by the portfolio manager for investment or disinvestment; 
 
(f) default in payment of coupons or any other default in payments in the underlying 
debt security and downgrading to default rating by the rating agencies, if any; 
 
(g) details of commission paid to distributor(s) for the particular client. 
 
(2) The report referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be made available on the website of the 
portfolio manager with restricted access to each client. 
 
(3) On termination of the contract, the portfolio manager shall give a detailed statement of 
accounts to the client and settle the account with the client as agreed in the contract. 
 
(4) The client shall have the right to obtain details of his portfolio from the portfolio managers. 
 
Report on steps taken on Auditor's report. 
32.   The portfolio manager shall take steps to rectify the deficiencies made out in the auditor’s 
report within two months from the date of the auditor’s report as specified in sub-regulation (2) 
of Regulation 30.  
 
Disclosures to the Board. 
33.   The Board may ask portfolio manager to disclose any information as and when required 
including the following: - 
 
(a)  particulars regarding the management of a portfolio; 
(b)  any change in the information or particulars previously furnished, which have 
a bearing on the certificate granted to him; 
(c)  the names of the clients whose portfolio it has managed; 
(d)  particulars relating to the net worth requirement as specified in regulation 9.

[Page 32]
Page 32 of 72  
 
Appointment of compliance officer. 
34. (1) Every portfolio manager shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for 
monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines, 
instructions etc., issued by the Board or the Central Government and for redressal of investors' 
grievances: 
 
Provided that the role of compliance officer shall not be assigned to the principal officer 
appointed in terms of clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 or the employee of the 
portfolio manager appointed in terms of clause (e) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 51[:] 
 
52[Provided further that in case of the Co-investment Portfolio Manager, the role of compliance 
officer may be assigned to the principal officer appointed in terms of clause (d) of sub-regulation 
(2) of regulation 7.] 
 
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non-
compliance observed by him. 
 
53[ Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
34A. (1) The Portfolio Manager shall redress investor grievances promptly but not later than 
twenty-one calendar days from the date of receipt of the grievance and in such manner as may be 
specified by the Board. 
(2) The Board may also recognize a body corporate for handling and monitoring the process of 
grievance redressal within such time and in such manner as may be specified.] 
 
CHAPTER V 
 
                                                
51 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 for the symbol “.” w.e.f  08.12.2021.  
52 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.e.f  08.12.2021. 
53 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023.

[Page 33]
Page 33 of 72  
INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS 
 
Right of inspection by the Board. 
35.  (1) The Board may appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake the 
inspection of the books of account, records and documents of the portfolio manager for any of 
the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2). 
 
(2)  The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows: - 
 
(a) to ensure that the books of account are being maintained in the manner required; 
 
(b) to ensure that the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations are being complied with; 
 
(c) to investigate into the complaints received from investors, other portfolio managers or 
any other person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the portfolio 
manager; and 
 
(d) to investigate suo motu in the interest of securities market or investors' interest into the 
affairs of the portfolio manager. 
 
Notice before inspection.  
36.  (1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 35, the Board shall give a reasonable 
notice to the portfolio manager. 
 
(2)  Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that 
in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct 
that the inspection of the affairs of the portfolio manager be taken up without such notice. 
 
(3)  During the course of inspection the portfolio manager against whom an inspection is being 
carried out shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided under regulation 37.

[Page 34]
Page 34 of 72  
Obligations of Portfolio Manager on inspection. 
37.  (1) It shall be the duty of every director, partner, officer and employee of the portfolio 
manager who is being inspected to produce to the inspecting authority such books, accounts and 
other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with the statements and information 
relating to his activities as a portfolio manager within such time as the inspecting authority may 
require. 
 
(2) The portfolio manager shall allow the inspecting authority to have a reasonable access to the 
premises occupied by such portfolio manager or by any other person, on his behalf and also 
extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, documents and computer data in the 
possession of the portfolio manager or any such other person and also provide copies of 
documents or other material which in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant for the 
purposes of the inspection. 
 
(3) The inspecting authority shall in the course of inspection, be entitled to examine or record 
statements of any principal officer, director, partner and employee of the portfolio manager. 
 
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, partner, officer or employee of the portfolio manager to 
give to the inspecting authority all assistance in connection with the inspection which the 
portfolio manager may reasonably be expected to give. 
     
Submission of report to the Board.  
38. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, submit an inspection report to the Board. 
 
Action on inspection or investigation report.  
39. The Board or the Chairman shall after consideration of inspection or investigation report take 
such action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and appropriate including action under 
Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. 
 
Appointment of Auditor. 
40.   The Board may appoint a qualified auditor to investigate into the books of account or the

[Page 35]
Page 35 of 72  
affairs of the portfolio manager: 
 
Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting authority as 
are mentioned in regulation 35 and the obligation of the portfolio manager and his employees in 
regulation 37 shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation. 
 
Explanation. ─ For the purposes of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 30 and under this regulation, 
the expression "qualified auditor" shall have the same meaning as given to it under section 141 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013). 
CHAPTER VI 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 
 
Liability for action in case of default.  
41.  A portfolio manager who contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, rules or regulations 
framed thereunder shall be liable for one or more action specified therein including the action 
under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 
2008. 
 
Repeal and Savings. 
42.  (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 1993, 
shall stand repealed from the date on which these regulations come into force. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, — 
(a) anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including 
registration or approval granted, fees collected, registration or approval, suspended or cancelled, 
any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the 
repealed regulations, prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the 
corresponding provisions of these regulations; 
 
(b) any application made to the Board under the repealed regulations, prior to such repeal, and 
pending before it shall be deemed to have been made under the corresponding provisions of

[Page 36]
Page 36 of 72  
these regulations; 
 
(c) the  previous  operation  of  the  repealed  regulations  or  anything  duly  done  or suffered 
thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the 
repealed regulations, any penalty, incurred in respect of any violation committed against the 
repealed regulations, or any  investigation,  legal  proceeding  or  remedy  in  respect  of  any  
such  right, privilege,  obligation,  liability,  penalty as  aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if 
the repealed regulations has never been repealed;  
 
(3) After the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 
1993, any reference thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or circulars issued 
thereunder by  the  Board  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a reference to the corresponding provisions 
of these regulations. 
 
 
54[CHAPTER VI-A 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
42A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any 
of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve 
months, for furthering innovation 55[***] relating to testing new products, processes, services, 
business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets. 
 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the 
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be 
complied with on a continuous basis. 
 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live testing 
                                                
54 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, 
w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 
55 The words “in technological aspects” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021.

[Page 37]
Page 37 of 72  
environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on 
a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the 
securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 
 
CHAPTER VII 
 MISCELLANEOUS 
Power of the Board to issue clarifications. 
43.   In order to remove any difficulties in respect of the application or interpretation of these 
regulations, the Board may issue clarifications or guidelines in the form of circulars. 
SCHEDULE I 
FORMS 
56[FORM A 
                                                
56 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f  08-12-2021. Prior to its substitution, FORM A read as under, 
 
“FORM A 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020 
 
 
Application for grant of certificate of registration 
 
Name of Applicant: ___________________________ 
Name of Contact Person: 
(Note: Compliance Officer / Principal Officer only) 
___________________________ 
Designation of Contact Person: ___________________________ 
Mobile No:   ___________________________ 
Email: 
 
___________________________ 
Instructions: 
 
1. Applicants shall submit a completed application form together with appropriate supporting documents to 
the Board. 
2. It is important that this application form should be filled in accordance with the regulations. 
3. Application for registration shall be considered provided it is complete in all respects. 
4. Answers shall be typewritten. 
5. Information that is required to be provided in more detail may be given on separate sheets which should 
be attached to the application form. 
6. All signatures shall be original. 
 
PART: I GENERAL INFORMATION 
1.0 PARTICULARS OF THE APPLICANT 
1.1 Name of the Applicant: 
1.2 PAN No. (Attach Copy of PAN Card) 
1.3 Address of Registered office: (Attach proof of address)

[Page 38]
Page 38 of 72  
                                                                                                                                                       
Pin Code ____________________ 
Mobile No:  Telephone No:    
Fax No:   Email: _____________________ 
1.4 Address for Correspondence: 
Pin Code: ____________________ 
Mobile No:   Telephone No:    
Fax No:     Email: ____________________ 
1.5 Address - Principal place of business:  
(Where PMS activity shall be carried out) 
Pin Code: ____________________ 
Mobile No:   Telephone No:    
Fax No:    Email: _____________________ 
1.6 If PMS activity is proposed to be carried out from any branch offices, details of such Branch Offices, 
including address, name of contact person, mobile number of contact person, email of contact person etc: 
 
2.0 ORGANISATION STRUCTURE 
2.1 Objectives: In brief. 
(Memorandum and Articles of Association/ Partnership Deed to be enclosed). 
(Copy of Board Resolution to be enclosed) 
2.2 Date and Place of Incorporation:  
Day            Month    Year        Place 
 ROC Registration No. 
2.3 Status of the Applicant: (e.g. Limited Company-Private/Public, LLP etc. If listed, names of the recognized 
stock exchanges to be given.) 
2.4 Organization Chart:  
[separately showing functional responsibilities (names and designations) of portfolio management activities 
to be enclosed] 
2.5 Particulars of all Directors/ Partners: 
[Name; Address; Qualification; Date of Appointment; DIN;  
PAN (Copy of PAN Card); Telephone No.; Mobile; Email] 
Experience:  
Entity 
Name 
Designation Area of 
Work 
Nature of 
Work 
Experience (In yrs) 
     
(Separate sheet may be attached for information on work experience) 
 
Other Directorships/Partnerships; (Name and Date of Appointment);  
Entity 
Name 
Date of Appointment No. of Shares Percentage of Shareholding 
    
 
2.6 Particulars of Key Management Personnel 
[Name; Address; Qualification; Designation; Date of Appointment;  
PAN no. (Certified PAN Copy); Telephone No.; Mobile; Email] 
 
Experience: 
Entity 
Name 
Designation Area of 
Work 
Nature of 
Work 
Experience (In yrs) 
     
(Separate sheet may be attached for information on work experience) 
 
Other directorship details: 
Name of the Entity Date of Appointment No. of Shares Percentage of 
Shareholding

[Page 39]
Page 39 of 72  
                                                                                                                                                       
Following documents to be provided: 
1. Declaration that the personnel mentioned above is currently employed with the organization. 
2. Undertaking by the personnel concerned that the details provided regarding them are true to the best of their 
knowledge and belief. 
3. Supporting documents for work experience 
2.7 Particulars of Promoters: 
[Type (Individual/ Corporate); Name; PAN (Copy of PAN Card); Address; Telephone No.; Mobile; Email]  
2.8 Particulars of Compliance Officer 
[Name; PAN (Copy of PAN Card); Qualification, Date of Appointment; Address;]  
Experience: 
Company 
Name 
Designation Area of 
Work 
Nature of 
Work 
Experience (In yrs) 
     
(Separate sheet may be attached for information on work experience) 
2.9 Particulars of Principal Officer 
[Name; PAN (Copy of PAN Card); Qualification, Date of Appointment; Address;] 
 
Certification Details: 
Certification Program Date of 
Test 
Result Percentage Certificate 
No. 
Validity 
From 
Validity 
Till 
       
Following documents to be provided: 
1. Bio-Data detailing the relevant experience as per Reg 7(2)(d) of SEBI Portfolio Managers Regulations, 
2020. 
2. Copy of Certifications. 
3. Certificate stating that the Principal Officer has been appointed and is compliant with the requirements and 
is not otherwise disqualified under the Regulations. 
2.10 Other SEBI Registration Details 
Registered: 
Registration 
No. 
Role Company 
Name 
Stock 
Exchange 
Registration  
Start 
Registration  
End 
Registration 
Status 
       
Applied: 
Application 
No. 
Role Company 
Name 
Stock 
Exchange 
Application Date Application Status 
      
2.11 Number of employees 
(Total number of employees and number of employees for Portfolio Management services) 
2.12 Name and activities of associate companies/ entities 
 
Name of 
company 
/entity 
 
Address/ 
phone 
numbers 
 
Type of 
activity 
handled 
Nature / 
Quantum of 
financial dealing 
Nature of 
interest of 
promoter 
/director 
Nature of interest 
of applicant 
company/ entity 
      
Ownership details: 
Name of the Shareholder No. of Shares Percentage of Shareholding 
   
Details of Registration with SEBI or any other Govt. Regulatory Body:

[Page 40]
Page 40 of 72  
                                                                                                                                                       
Name of 
Regulator 
Registration No. Registration Start 
Date 
Registration End 
Date 
Registration 
Status 
Details of 
Action Taken 
in past (if any) 
      
2.13  List of major shareholders/ partners of the Applicant (holding 5% or more voting rights):  
[Name; Type; Address; Telephone No.; Mobile; Email; Share holding pattern/ partnership interest/ voting rights 
as on Date] 
 
3.0 DETAILS OF INFRASTRUCTURAL FACILITIES 
3.1 Principal Place of Business 
(1)  Office Space 
(2)  Office Equipment 
(3)  Furniture and Fixtures 
(4)  Communication Facilities 
(5)  Data Processing Capacity 
(a) In-house 
(b) Others 
(6) Computer facility: 
(a) Hardware configuration 
(b) Software Environment 
(7) Details of Disaster Recovery Set up / Business Continuity Plan 
3.2 Branch Office 
(1)  Office Space 
(2)  Office Equipment 
(3)  Furniture and Fixtures 
(4)  Communication Facilities 
(5)  Data Processing Capacity 
(a) In-house: 
(b) Others: 
(6) Computer facility: 
(a) Hardware configuration 
(b) Software Environment 
   (7) Details of Disaster Recovery Set up / Business Continuity Plan 
 
4.0 BUSINESS PLAN (FOR THREE YEARS) 
(1) History, Major events and present activities 
(2) Proposed business plan and means of achieving the same. 
(3) Projected Profitability (Next three years) 
(4) (Targets, modus operandi to achieve targets, Resultant Income) 
 
5.0 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
5.1 Capital Structure (Rs. in Crore) 
 Year prior to the preceding 
year of current year 
 
Preceding year 
 
Current year 
(a) Paid-up capital    
(b) Free reserves (excluding 
revaluation reserves) 
   
(c) Total (a) + (b)    
5.2 Net worth of Applicant (Net worth certificate not older than 3 months from the date of application to be 
enclosed)  
5.3 Deployment of Resources (Rs. in Crore) 
 Year p rior to the preceding 
year of current year 
 
Preceding year 
 
Current year

[Page 41]
Page 41 of 72  
                                                                                                                                                       
(a) Fixed Assets    
(b) Plant and Machinery and office 
equipment 
   
(c) Investments (Details should be 
given separately) 
   
(d) Others    
Details of investments, Loans and Advances made to Associate Companies/ Firms where Promoters/Directors 
have an interest 
5.4 Major Sources of Income: (Rs. in Crore) 
 Year prior to the preceding 
year of current year 
 
Preceding year 
 
Current Year 
    
5.5 Net Profit    (Rs. in Crore) 
 Year prior to the preceding year 
of current year 
 
Preceding year 
 
Current Year 
    
5.6 Particulars of Principal Banks: 
 Name, Contact Person; Address; Telephone No.; Mobile; Email 
5.7 Particulars of Auditors: 
 Name; Type (Internal/ External); Contact Person; Address; Telephone No.; Mobile; Email 
5.8 Declaration of submission of Banker’s Report from two Banks 
 
6.0 OTHER INFORMATION 
6.1 Details of all settled and pending disputes of previous 3 years: 
 
Nature of dispute Name of the party Status (Pending/ settled)  Dispute Details 
    
6.2 Indictment of involvement in any economic offences in the last three years. 
6.3 Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services rendered by the company. 
6.4 Details of Membership with the recognized Stock Exchanges: 
a. If the applicant / any of the Directors of the applicant, its subsidiary / associate / group company 
under the same management, are members of recognized stock exchanges? 
b. Broker Registration Number 
c. Details regarding payment of fees to SEBI 
d. Whether the member is facing any charges/ disciplinary action or if in past any such action was taken 
by the stock exchange 
 
PART II SPECIFIC INFORMATION 
 
7.0 BUSINESS INFORMATION 
7.1 Indicate type of activity carried on/ proposed to be carried on. 
7.2      Indicate the facilities for making decision on portfolio investment. 
7.3      Details of risk profiling procedure to be followed by the Portfolio Manager. 
7.4      Details of grievance redressal and dispute resolution mechanism to be followed by the Portfolio Manager. 
7.5      Provide list of approved share brokers through whom orders shall be placed, involved for Portfolio 
Management activities and state whether any of them were suspended/had defaulted with any Stock Exchange 
authority. 
7.6      Describe Accounting system followed/to be followed for Portfolio Management Services. 
7.7      Indicate various research and database facilities provided. 
7.8      Details of activities proposed to be outsourced. 
 
8.0 EXPERIENCE

[Page 42]
Page 42 of 72  
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020 
 
Application for grant of certificate of registration 
 
 
Name of Applicant:  
   (Name of Manager of Alternative Investment Fund in 
case applicant is offering Co-investment services only) 
 
Name of Contact Person: 
(Note: Compliance Officer / Principal Officer only) 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                       
8.1      Experience in financial services rendered: 
 Details of Activity Area Period 
   
9.0 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
9.1. Copy of Draft Agreement with Client to be provided 
9.2 Copy of Draft Disclosure Document to be provided 
9.3. Details of Custodian: 
 (Name, Address, SEBI Registration No., Date of Appointment) 
9.4. Details of Registration with other Regulatory bodies. 
 
10.0 DECLARATIONS 
10.1. Declaration of compliance with Regulation 7 (2) signed by at least Two Directors or designated partners 
10.2. Declaration for Fit and Proper Person as specified in SEBI (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 
10.3. Declaration of Compliance with clause 12 (b) of Schedule III of these Regulations. 
10.4. Declaration of Compliance with SEBI circular on fees and charges. 
10.5. Declaration of type and frequency of reports sent/ proposed to be sent to clients. 
10.6. Declaration of time taken for transfer of securities into client accounts. 
10.7. Declaration of submission of periodic reports and Disclosure Document to SEBI. 
10.8. Declaration of compliance with clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 27 - regarding 
maintenance of records for Investment rationale. 
10.9. Declaration of availability of Disclosure document on website of Portfolio Manager. 
 
DECLARATION 
This declaration must be signed by two directors/designated partners  
I/We hereby, apply for Registration as Portfolio Manager. I/We do hereby declare that I/We have truthfully 
and fully answered the questions above and provided all the information which might reasonably be considered 
relevant for the purposes of my/our registration. 
 
For and on behalf of (Name of Applicant) 
 
Director/Designated Partner Director/Designated Partner 
 
Name in Block Letters         Name in Block Letters 
 
Place:          Place: 
Date:           Date:”

[Page 43]
Page 43 of 72  
 
Designation of Contact Person: 
 
 
 
Mobile No: 
 
 
 
Email: 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions: 
 
1. Applicants shall submit a completed application form together with appropriate 
supporting documents to the Board. 
 
2. It is important that this application form should be filled in accordance with the 
regulations. 
 
3. Application for registration shall be considered provided it is complete in all respects. 
 
4. Answers shall be typewritten. 
 
5. Information that is required to be provided in more detail may be given on separate 
sheets which should be attached to the application form. 
 
6. All signatures shall be original. 
 
 
PART: I GENERAL INFORMATION 
 
 
1.0 PARTICULARS OF THE APPLICANT

[Page 44]
Page 44 of 72  
 
1.1 Name of the Applicant    
(Name of Manager of Alternative Investment Fund in case applicant is offering Co-
investment services only): 
 
1.2 PAN No. (Attach Copy of PAN Card) 
 
1.3 Address of Registered office: (Attach proof of address)  
 
 
 Pin Code:    
 
Mobile No: Telephone No:    
 
Fax No: Email:    
 
1.4 Address for Correspondence: 
 
Pin Code:    
Mobile No: Telephone No:    
 
Fax No: Email:   
 
 
1.5 Address - Principal place of business: (Where 
PMS activity shall be carried out) 
 
Pin Code:    
 
 
Mobile No: Telephone No:

[Page 45]
Page 45 of 72  
Fax No: Email:    
 
 
 
1.6 If PMS activity is proposed to be carried out from any branch offices, details of such 
Branch Offices, including address, name of contact person, mobile number of contact 
person, email of contact person etc: 
 
2.0 ORGANISATION STRUCTURE 
 
 
2.1 Objectives: In brief. 
 
(Memorandum and Articles of Association/ Partnership Deed to be enclosed).                     
(Copy of Board Resolution to be enclosed) 
 
2.2 Date and Place of Incorporation: 
Day Month Year Place 
ROC Registration No. 
2.3 Status of the Applicant: (e.g. Limited Company-Private/Public, LLP etc. If listed, names 
of the recognized stock exchanges to be given.) 
 
2.4 Organization Chart: 
[separately showing functional responsibilities (names and designations) of portfolio 
management activities to be enclosed] 
 
2.5 Particulars of all Directors/ Partners: 
[Name; Address; Qualification; Date of Appointment; DIN; 
PAN (Copy of PAN Card); Telephone No.; Mobile; Email] 
 
Experience:

[Page 46]
Page 46 of 72  
 
Entity 
Name 
Designation Area of 
Work 
Nature of 
Work 
Experience (In yrs) 
     
(Separate sheet may be attached for information on work experience) 
 
 
Other Directorships/Partnerships; (Name and Date of Appointment); 
 
Entity 
Name 
Date of 
Appointment 
No. of Shares Percentage of 
Shareholding 
    
 
2.6 Particulars of Key Management Personnel 
[Name; Address; Qualification; Designation; Date of Appointment; 
PAN no. (Certified PAN Copy); Telephone No.; Mobile; Email] 
 
Experience: 
 
 
 
(Separate sheet may be attached for information on work experience)  
Other directorship details: 
Name of the Entity Date of Appointment No. of Shares Percentage of 
Shareholding 
    
 
Following documents to be provided: 
1. Declaration that the personnel mentioned above is currently employed with the 
organization. 
2. Undertaking by the personnel concerned that the details provided regarding them are 
true to the best of their knowledge and belief. 
Entity 
Name 
Designation Area of 
Work 
Nature of 
Work 
Experience (In yrs)

[Page 47]
Page 47 of 72  
3. Supporting documents for work experience 
 
2.7 Particulars of Promoters: 
[Type (Individual/ Corporate); Name; PAN (Copy of PAN Card); Address; Telephone No.; Mobile; 
Email] 
 
2.8 Particulars of Compliance Officer 
[Name; PAN (Copy of PAN Card); Qualification, Date of Appointment; Address;] Experience: 
Company 
Name 
Designation Area of 
Work 
Nature of 
Work 
Experience (In yrs) 
     
(Separate sheet may be attached for information on work experience) 
 
2.9 Particulars of Principal Officer 
[Name; PAN (Copy of PAN Card); Qualification, Date of Appointment; Address;] 
 
Certification Details: 
 
Certification Program Date of 
Test 
Result Percentage Certificate 
No. 
Validity 
From 
Validity 
Till 
       
 
Following documents to be provided: 
1. Bio-Data detailing the relevant experience as per Regulation 7(2)(d) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers   )                                      Regulations, 2020.  
2. Copy of Certifications. 
3. Certificate stating that the Principal Officer has been appointed and is compliant with the 
requirements and is not otherwise disqualified under the Regulations. 
4. In case the applicant providing Co-investment Portfolio Management services designates any 
one member of the Key Investment Team of the Manager, who fulfils either of the criteria, 
viz. experience or professional qualification, as specified in Regulation 4(g) of the Securities

[Page 48]
Page 48 of 72  
and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 as principal 
officer, an undertaking to this effect to be provided. 
 
2.10 Other SEBI Registration Details 
Registered: 
Registration 
No. 
Role Company 
Name 
Stock 
Exchange 
Registration 
Start 
Registration 
End 
Registration 
Status 
       
 
Applied: 
 
Application 
No. 
Role Company 
Name 
Stock 
Exchange 
Application 
Date 
Application 
Status 
      
 
 
 
2.11 Number of employees 
 
(Total number of employees and number of employees for Portfolio Management services) 
 
2.12 Name and activities of associate companies/ entities 
 
 
Name of 
company 
/entity 
 
Address/ 
phone 
numbers 
 
Type of 
activity 
handled 
Nature / 
Quantum of 
financial 
dealing 
Nature of 
interest of 
promoter 
/director 
Nature of 
interest of 
applicant 
company/ entity 
      
 
Ownership details: 
 
Name of the Shareholder No. of Shares Percentage of Shareholding

[Page 49]
Page 49 of 72  
Details of Registration with SEBI or any other Govt. Regulatory Body: 
 
Name of 
Regulator 
Registration 
No. 
Registration 
Start Date 
Registration 
End Date 
Registration 
Status 
Details of 
Action 
Taken in 
past (if any) 
      
 
2.13 List of major shareholders/ partners of the Applicant (holding 5% or more voting rights): 
[Name; Type; Address; Telephone No.; Mobile; Email; Share holding pattern/ partnership 
interest/ voting rights as on Date] 
 
3.0 DETAILS OF INFRASTRUCTURAL FACILITIES 
3.1 Principal Place of Business 
(1) Office Space 
(2) Office Equipment 
(3) Furniture and Fixtures 
(4) Communication Facilities 
(5) Data Processing Capacity 
(a) In-house 
(b) Others 
(6) Computer facility: 
(a) Hardware configuration 
(b) Software Environment 
(7) Details of Disaster Recovery Set up / Business Continuity Plan 
 
3.2 Branch Office

[Page 50]
Page 50 of 72  
(1) Office Space 
(2) Office Equipment 
(3) Furniture and Fixtures 
(4) Communication Facilities 
(5) Data Processing Capacity 
a. In-house: 
b. Others: 
(6)  Computer facility: 
a. Hardware configuration 
b. Software Environment 
(7) Details of Disaster Recovery Set up / Business Continuity Plan 
 
4.0 BUSINESS PLAN (FOR THREE YEARS) 
 
(1) History, Major events and present activities 
(2) Proposed business plan and means of achieving the same. 
(3) Projected Profitability (Next three years) 
(4) (Targets, modus operandi to achieve targets, Resultant Income) 
 
5.0 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
 
5.1 Capital Structure (Rs. in Crore) 
 
 Year prior to the preceding 
year of current year 
 
Preceding year 
 
Curren
t year 
(a) Paid-up capital

[Page 51]
Page 51 of 72  
(b) Free reserves 
(excluding 
revaluation reserves) 
   
(c) Total (a) + (b)    
 
5.2 Net worth of Applicant (Net worth certificate not older than 3 months from the date of   
application to be enclosed) 
(Not applicable in case of applicant offering Co-investment services only) 
 
5.3 Deployment of Resources (Rs. in Crore) 
 
 Year prior to the preceding 
year of current year 
 
Preceding year 
 
Current 
year 
(a) Fixed Assets    
(b) Plant and 
Machinery and 
office equipment 
   
(c) Investments 
(Details should be 
given separately) 
   
(d) Others    
 
Details of investments, Loans and Advances made to Associate Companies/ Firms where 
Promoters/Directors have an interest 
 
 
5.4 Major Sources of Income: (Rs. in Crore) 
 
 Year prior to the 
preceding year of current 
year 
 
Preceding year Current Year 
    
 
5.5 Net Profit (Rs. in Crore)

[Page 52]
Page 52 of 72  
 
 Year prior to the preceding 
year of current year 
 
Preceding year 
 
Current Year 
    
 
 
5.6 Particulars of Principal Banks: 
Name, Contact Person; Address; Telephone No.; Mobile; Email 
 
5.7 Particulars of Auditors: 
 
Name; Type (Internal/ External); Contact Person; Address; Telephone No.; Mobile; Email 
 
5.8 Declaration of submission of Banker’s Report from two Banks 
 
6.0 OTHER INFORMATION 
 
6.1 Details of all settled and pending disputes of previous 3 years: 
 
Nature of dispute Name of the party Status (Pending/ 
settled) 
Dispute Details 
    
 
6.2 Indictment of involvement in any economic offences in the last three years. 
 
 
6.3 Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services rendered by the             
company. 
 
6.4 Details of Membership with the recognized Stock Exchanges: 
a. If the applicant / any of the Directors of the applicant, its subsidiary / associate / 
group company under the same management, are members of recognized stock

[Page 53]
Page 53 of 72  
exchanges? 
b. Broker Registration Number 
c. Details regarding payment of fees to SEBI 
d. Whether the member is facing any charges/ disciplinary action or if in past any 
such action was taken by the stock exchange 
 
PART II SPECIFIC INFORMATION 
 
7.0 BUSINESS INFORMATION 
 
7.1 Indicate type of activity carried on/ proposed to be carried on. 
7.2 Indicate the facilities for making decision on portfolio investment. 
7.3 Details of risk profiling procedure to be followed by the Portfolio Manager. 
7.4    Details of grievance redressal and dispute resolution mechanism to be followed by the    
Portfolio Manager. 
7.5 Provide list of approved share brokers through whom orders shall be placed, 
involved for Portfolio Management activities and state whether any of them were 
suspended/had defaulted with any Stock Exchange authority. 
7.6 Describe Accounting system followed/to be followed for Portfolio Management   Services. 
7.7 Indicate various research and database facilities provided. 
7.8 Details of activities proposed to be outsourced. 
 
8.0 EXPERIENCE 
 
8.1 Experience in financial services rendered: 
 
Details of Activity Area Period 
   
 
9.0 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
 
9.1. Copy of Draft Agreement with Client to be provided 
9.2 Copy of Draft Disclosure Document to be provided

[Page 54]
Page 54 of 72  
 
9.3. Details of Custodian: 
(Name, Address, SEBI Registration No., Date of Appointment)  
(Not applicable in case of applicant offering Co-investment services only) 
 
9.4. Details of Registration with other Regulatory bodies. 
 
10.0 DECLARATIONS 
 
10.1. Declaration of compliance with Regulation 7(2) signed by at least Two Directors or        
designated partners  
(compliance with Regulation 7(2)(e) shall not be applicable in case of applicant 
offering Co-investment services only) 
 
10.2. Declaration for Fit and Proper Person as specified in the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations,             2008 
 
10.3. Declaration of Compliance with clause 12 (b) of Schedule III of these Regulations. 
 
10.4. Declaration of Compliance with SEBI circular on fees and charges. 
 
10.5. Declaration of type and frequency of reports sent/ proposed to be sent to clients. 
 
10.6. Declaration of time taken for transfer of securities into client accounts. 
 
10.7. Declaration of submission of periodic reports and Disclosure Document to SEBI. 
 
10.8. Declaration of compliance with clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 27 - 
regarding maintenance of records for Investment rationale. 
 
10.9. Declaration of availability of Disclosure document on website of Portfolio Manager.

[Page 55]
Page 55 of 72  
Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply in case of applicant offering only Co-
investment services. 
10.10. In case of applicant offering Co-investment services only, declaration stating that 
the applicant is a Manager of a Category I or Category II Alternative Investment 
Fund(s). 
 
DECLARATION 
 
This declaration must be signed by two directors/designated partners 
 
I/We hereby, apply for Registration as Portfolio Manager. I/We do hereby declare that 
I/We have truthfully and fully answered the questions above and provided all the 
information which might reasonably be considered relevant for the purposes of my/our 
registration. 
 
For and on behalf of 
 
 
 
(Name of Applicant) 
 
 
Director/Designated Partner Director/Designated Partner 
 
 
Name in Block Letters Name in Block Letters

[Page 56]
Page 56 of 72  
Place: Place: 
Date: Date:] 
 
 
 
FORM B 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020 
[Regulation 10] 
 
Certificate of Registration 
 
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the regulations made thereunder for 
portfolio managers, the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to  as a 
portfolio manager subject to the conditions specified in the Act and in the regulations 
made thereunder. 
 
II. Registration Number for the portfolio manager is PM / / 
 
III. This certificate of registration shall be valid till it is suspended, cancelled or 
surrendered in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio 
Managers) Regulations, 2020. 
 
 
Place: 
Date:                   By Order 
For and on behalf of       
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Authorized signatory

[Page 57]
Page 57 of 72  
 
 
 
 
 
FORM C 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020 
 
[Regulation 22] 
 
 
 
          (Name of the Portfolio Manager) 
 
 
(Address of the Portfolio Manager (along with phone numbers, fax, email etc.) 
 
We confirm that: 
i) the Disclosure Document forwarded to the Board is in accordance with the SEBI 
(Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020 and the guidelines and directives issued by the 
Board from time to time; 
ii) the disclosures made in the document are true, fair and adequate to enable the investors 
to make a well informed decision regarding entrusting the management of the portfolio 
to us / investment through the Portfolio Manager.  
iii) the Disclosure Document has been duly certified by an independent chartered 
accountant (Indicate name, address, phone number and registration number of the 
chartered accountant) on     (date). 
(Enclose a copy of the chartered accountant’s certificate to the effect that the disclosures 
made in the document are true, fair and adequate to enable the investors to make a well

[Page 58]
Page 58 of 72  
informed decision) 
 
          Date:                      Signature of the Principal Officer 
    Place:                      [Name and address of the Principal Officer] 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE II 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020 
[Regulation 15] 
FEES 
1. Every portfolio manager shall pay a non-refundable fee of one lakh rupees along with 
the application for grant of certificate of registration. 
 
2. Every portfolio manager shall pay a sum of ten lakh rupees as registration fees at the 
time of the grant of certificate by the Board. 
 
3. A portfolio manager who has been granted a certificate of registration, to keep its 
registration in force, shall pay fee of five lakh rupees every three years , from the date of 
grant of certificate of registration or from the date of grant of certificate of registration 
granted prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change 
in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, 
as the case may be, within three months before expiry of the block period for which fee has 
been paid. 
 
4.  57[The fee referred to in paragraph (2) shall be paid by the portfolio manager within 
                                                
57 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 01-04-2023. Prior to its substitution, Clause 4 read as under: 
“The fee referred to in paragraph (2) shall be paid by the portfolio manager within fifteen days from the date of 
receipt of intimation from the Board under regulation 10 by way of demand draft in favour of 'Securities and 
Exchange Board of India' payable at Mumbai or at the place where respective regional or local office is located or

[Page 59]
Page 59 of 72  
fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board under regulation 10 by 
way of direct credit into the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or online payment 
using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other mode as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time.] 
 
5.  58[ The fees specified in paragraphs (1) and (3) above, shall be payable by the portfolio 
manager by way of direct credit into the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or 
online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other mode as may be specified 
by the Board from time to time.] 
SCHEDULE III 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020 
[Regulation 21] 
 
CODE OF CONDUCT- PORTFOLIO MANAGER 
 
1. A portfolio manager shall, in the conduct of his business, observe high standards of 
integrity and fairness in all his dealings with his clients and other portfolio managers. 
 
2. The money received by a portfolio manager from a client for an investment purpose 
should be deployed by the portfolio manager as soon as possible for that purpose and 
money due and payable to a client should be paid forthwith. 
 
3. A portfolio manager shall render at all times high standards of service, exercise due 
diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent professional judgment. The 
portfolio manager shall either avoid any conflict of interest in his investment or 
disinvestment decision, or where any conflict of interest arises, ensure fair treatment to all 
                                                                                                                                                       
by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI.” 
58 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 01-04-2023. Prior to its substitution, Clause 5 read as under: 
“The fees specified in paragraphs (1) and (3) above, shall be payable by the portfolio manager by a demand draft in 
favour of "Securities and Exchange Board of India" payable at Mumbai or at the place where respective regional 
office is located by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed 
by RBI.”

[Page 60]
Page 60 of 72  
his customers. It shall disclose to the clients, possible source of conflict of interest, while 
providing unbiased services. A portfolio manager shall not place his interest above those of 
his clients. 
 
4. A portfolio manager shall not execute any trade against the interest of the clients in its 
proprietary account. 
 
5. A portfolio manager shall not make any statement or indulge in any act, practice or 
unfair competition, which is likely to be harmful to the interests of other portfolio 
managers or is likely to place such other portfolio managers in a disadvantageous position 
in relation to the portfolio manager himself, while competing for or executing any 
assignment. 
 
6. A portfolio manager shall not make any exaggerated statement, whether oral or 
written, to the client either about the qualification or the capability to render certain 
services or his achievements in regard to services rendered to other clients. 
 
7. At the time of entering into a contract, the portfolio manager shall obtain in writing 
from the client, his interest in various corporate bodies which enables him to obtain 
unpublished price-sensitive information of the body corporate. 
 
8. A portfolio manager shall not disclose to any clients, or press any confidential 
information about his client, which has come to his knowledge. 
 
9. The portfolio manager shall where necessary and in the interest of the client take 
adequate steps for the transfer of the clients' securities and for claiming and receiving 
dividends, interest payments and other rights accruing to the client. It shall also take 
necessary action for conversion of securities and subscription for/renunciation of rights in 
accordance with the clients' instruction. 
 
10. A portfolio manager shall endeavor to -

[Page 61]
Page 61 of 72  
( a ) ensure that the investors are provided with true and adequate information without 
making any misguiding or exaggerated claims and are made aware of attendant 
risks before any investment decision is taken by them; 
( b ) render the best possible advice to the client having regard to the client's needs and 
the environment, and his own professional skills; 
( c ) ensure that all professional dealings are effected in a prompt, efficient and cost 
effective manner. 
 
11. (1) A portfolio manager shall not be a party to - 
( a ) creation of false market in securities; 
( b ) price rigging or manipulation of securities; 
( c ) passing of price sensitive information to brokers, members of the recognized 
stock exchanges and any other intermediaries in the capital market or take any 
other action which is prejudicial to the interest of the investors. 
 
(2) No portfolio manager or any of its directors, partners or manager shall either on their 
own or through their associates or family members or relatives enter into any transaction 
in securities of companies on the basis of unpublished price sensitive information 
obtained by them during the course of any professional assignment. 
 
12. (a) A portfolio manager or any of its employees shall not render, directly or indirectly 
any investment advice about any security in the publicly accessible media, whether real-
time or non-real-time, unless a disclosure of his long or short position in the said security 
has been made, while rendering such advice. 
 
(b) In case an employee of the portfolio manager is rendering such advice, he shall also 
disclose the interest of his dependent family members and the employer including their 
long or short position in the said security, while rendering such advice. 
 
13. (a)The portfolio manager shall abide by the Act, Rules, and regulations made

[Page 62]
Page 62 of 72  
thereunder and the Guidelines / Schemes issued by the Board. 
(b) The portfolio manager shall comply with the code of conduct specified in the SEBI 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. 
(c) The portfolio manager shall not use his status as any other registered intermediary to 
unduly influence the investment decision of the clients while rendering portfolio 
management services. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE IV 
 
CONTENTS OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PORTFOLIO MANAGER AND 
HIS CLIENTS 
 
[Regulation 22] 
 
The following shall be mentioned in the agreement - 
1. Appointment of portfolio manager. 
 
2. Scope of services to be provided by the portfolio manager subject to the activities 
permitted under SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020, viz, advisory, 
investment management, custody of securities, keeping track of corporate benefits 
associated with the securities. The Portfolio Manager shall act in a fiduciary capacity 
and as a trustee and agent of the clients' account.

[Page 63]
Page 63 of 72  
3. Functions, obligations, duties and responsibilities (as discretionary and non-
discretionary to be given separately) with specific provisions regarding instructions 
for non-discretionary portfolio manager which, inter alia, includes - 
 
(i) terms in compliance with the Act, SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations,2020, 
rules, regulations, guidelines made under the Act and any other 
laws/rules/regulations / guidelines etc.; 
(ii) providing reports to clients; 
(iii) maintenance of records of client wise transaction and related books of accounts; 
(iv) provisions regarding audit of accounts as required under the SEBI (Portfolio 
Managers) Regulations, 2020; 
(v) settlement of accounts and procedure therefor including the provisions for 
payment on maturity or early termination of the contract. 
 
4. Investment objectives and guidelines - 
 
(i) Types of securities in which investment would be made specifying restrictions, if 
any. 
(ii) Particulars regarding amount, period of management, repayment or withdrawal. 
(iii) Taxation aspects such as Tax Deducted at Source etc. 
(iv) Condition that the portfolio manager shall not lend the securities of the client 
unless authorized by him in writing. 
 
5. Risk factors 
(i) A detailed statement of risks associated with each type of investment including 
the standard risks associated with each type of investment. 
 
6. Period of agreement- the agreement shall provide the period of the agreement in years, 
terms of termination and/or provision for renewal in case of a renewable agreement.

[Page 64]
Page 64 of 72  
7. Conditions under which agreement may be altered, terminated and implications 
thereof, such as settlement of amounts invested, repayment obligations etc. 
 
(i) Voluntary/mandatory termination by the portfolio manager; 
(ii) Voluntary/mandatory termination by the client; 
(iii) Suspension by the Board or other regulatory authority. 
59[Provided that sub-clauses (i) and (ii) shall not apply in case of Co-investment 
Portfolio Manager.] 
 
8. Maintenance of Accounts- Maintenance of accounts separately in the name of the 
client as are necessary to account for the assets and any additions, income, receipts 
and disbursements in connection therewith, as provided under SEBI (Portfolio 
Managers) Regulations, 2020. 
 
9. Change in the quantum of funds to be managed- The conditions under which the client 
may withdraw cash or securities from the portfolio account or bring in additional cash 
to be managed as per the terms and conditions that apply. The portfolio manager shall 
not change any terms of the agreement without prior consent of the client. 
 
10. Access to information- (Subject to the provisions of SEBI (Portfolio Managers) 
Regulations, 2020) - Provisions enabling client to get the books of accounts of the 
portfolio manager relating to his transactions audited by a chartered accountant 
appointed by him and permitting the client an access to relevant and material 
documents of portfolio manager, provisions listing the documents for inspection along 
with timings for such inspection, furnishing of reports to the client subject to 
furnishing at least once in three months and the reports to be made available on the 
web site of the portfolio manager with restricted access to each client and other rights 
of clients etc. The provision that the statements / documents / report furnished by the 
portfolio manager to the client present a true and fair picture of the transactions. 
                                                
59 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 
2021 w.ef 08.12.2021

[Page 65]
Page 65 of 72  
 
11. Terms of Fees- The quantum and manner of payment of fees and charges for each 
activity for which services are rendered by the portfolio manager directly or indirectly 
(where such service is outsourced) such as investment management, advisory and 
transfer, and transaction costs with specific references to brokerage costs, custody 
charges, cost related to furnishing regular communication, account statement, 
miscellaneous expenses (individual expenses in excess of 5% to be indicated 
separately) etc. The provision that the portfolio manager shall take prior permission 
from the client in this respect. 
 
12. Billing- Periodicity of billing, whether payment to be made in advance, manner of 
payment of fees, whether setting off against the account etc., type of documents 
evidencing receipt of payment of fees. 
 
13. Liability of portfolio manager- Liability of portfolio manager in connection with 
recommendations made, to cover errors of judgment, negligence or willful 
misfeasance and in connection with discharge of duties or acts of other intermediaries, 
brokers, custodians etc. 
 
14. Liability of client- restricting the liability of the client to the extent of his investment. 
 
15. Death or Disability- providing for continuation/termination of the agreement in event 
of client's death/disability, succession, nomination, representation etc. to be 
incorporated. 
 
16. Assignment- Conditions for assignment of the agreement by client. 
 
17. Governing Law- The law/jurisdiction of country/state which governs the agreement to 
be stated. 
 
18. Settlement of grievances/disputes and provision for arbitration - Provisions to cover

[Page 66]
Page 66 of 72  
protection of act done in good faith or Risks and losses, provisions for redressal of 
grievances, dispute resolution mechanism, reference for arbitration and the situations 
under which such rights may arise, may be made.

[Page 67]
Page 67 of 72  
60[*****]
                                                
60 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 
w.e.f 03.09.2025.

[Page 68]
Page 68 of 72  
 
SCHEDULE VI 
 
Declaration for Eligible Fund Managers [Chapter III] 
 
1. Declaration by an existing portfolio manager which intends to act as an eligible fund 
manager (must be signed by two directors or designated partners, as the case may be) 
 
We hereby declare that we are a SEBI registered portfolio manager with Registration 
Number ………… We intend to provide our services to eligible investment funds. In this 
regard, we declare that: 
 
a) We are compliant with subsection 4(a) of section 9A of Income-tax Act, 1961 (We are 
not an employee of the eligible investment fund or a connected person of the fund); 
b) We are compliant with subsection 4(c) of section 9A of Income-tax Act, 1961 (We are 
acting in the ordinary course of our business as a portfolio manager); 
c) We are compliant with subsection 4(d) of section 9A of Income-tax Act, 1961 (We along 
with our connected persons shall not be entitled, directly or indirectly, to more than twenty 
per cent of the profits accruing or arising to the eligible investment fund from the 
transactions carried out by the fund through us); and 
d) We shall comply with any other requirements as may be specified by the Government 
and/or any regulatory body from time to time. 
 
For and on behalf of 
 
        (Name of Applicant) 
 
 
 
Director 1/ Designated Partner 1            Director 2/ Designated Partner 2

[Page 69]
Page 69 of 72  
 
 
Name in Block Letters Name in Block Letters 
 
Place: Place: 
 
Date: Date: 
 
2. Declaration by an applicant who intends to act as a portfolio manager to eligible 
investment funds (shall be signed by two directors or designated partners, as the case may 
be) We hereby declare that we are applying to SEBI for being registered as a portfolio 
manager. We intend to provide our services to eligible investment funds. In this regards, we 
declare that: 
 
a) We are compliant with subsection 4(a) of section 9A of Income-tax Act, 1961 (We are 
not an employee of the eligible investment fund or a connected person of the fund); 
 
b) We are compliant with subsection 4(c) of section 9A of Income-tax Act, 1961 (We are 
acting in the ordinary course of our business as portfolio manager); 
 
c) We are compliant with subsection 4(d) of section 9A of Income-tax Act, 1961 (We along 
with our connected persons shall not be entitled, directly or indirectly, to more than twenty 
per cent of the profits accruing or arising to the eligible investment fund from the 
transactions carried out by the fund through us); 
 
d) We may engage in the activity of fund management for eligible investment funds, 
subject to registration provided by SEBI under SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 
2020; and 
 
e) We shall comply with any other requirements as may be specified by the Government

[Page 70]
Page 70 of 72  
and/or any regulatory body from time to time. 
 
 
For and on behalf of 
 
 
       (Name of Applicant) 
 
 
 
Director 1/ Designated Partner 1   Director 2/ Designated Partner 2 
 
                         
 
Name in Block Letters                                        Name in Block Letters   
 
Place:                                                                   Place:  
Date:                                                                    Date: 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
                                                                                                  
AJAY TYAGI 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

[Page 71]
Page 71 of 72  
Footnote: 
1.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020, were 
published in the Gazette of India on January 16, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2020/03. 
2.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020 were 
subsequently amended on, - 
  a.    17 th April, 2020 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory Sandbox) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2020/10. 
b.    16 th March, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/10. 
c.     26 th April, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/16. 
d.    3 rd August, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory Sandbox) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/30. 
e.     3 rd August, 2021 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2021/31. 
f.     9 th November, 2021  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Portfolio  
Managers) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2021/58. 
g.      22th August,2022 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2022/94. 
h.     17 th January, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfoli o Managers) 
(Change in Control in Intermediaries)  (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2023/115. 
i.  7 th February, 2023 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of 
Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/121. 
j.  4 th July, 2023 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/137. 
k. 18 th August, 2023 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance 
Redressal Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2023/146.

[Page 72]
Page 72 of 72  
 
 
l.  10 th February, 2025 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Charter) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/228. 
m. 3 rd September, 2025 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2025/260.
