[Page 1]
Page 1 of 27 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(VAULT MANAGERS) REGULATIONS, 2021 
Amended upto  February 10, 2025 
CONTENTS 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
1. Short title and commencement 
2. Definitions 
CHAPTER II 
REGISTRATION OF VAULT MANAGERS 
3. Application for registration 
4. Eligibility criteria 
5. Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation 
6. Consideration of application for grant of certificate of registration 
7. Procedure for grant of the certificate of registration 
8. Conditions of certificate of registration  
9. Period of validity of certificate 
10. Procedure where registration is refused 
11. Surrender of registration 
CHAPTER III 
DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE VAULT MANAGERS 
12. General obligations 
13. Segregation of activities 
14. Maintenance of records 
15. Vault Manager to indemnify loss in certain cases 
16. Code of conduct 
16A. Dispute Resolution

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 27 
 
CHAPTER IV 
ELECTRONIC GOLD RECEIPTS 
17. Deposit of gold into the vault(s) 
18. Creation of Electronic Gold Receipt 
19. Withdrawal of gold 
CHAPTER V 
INSPECTION AND AUDIT 
20. Right of Board to inspect 
21. Notice before inspection 
22. Obligations of the Vault Managers on inspection 
23. Submission of report 
24. Action on inspection  
25. Appointment of auditor 
26. Expenses for audit 
CHAPTER VI 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 
27. Liability for action in case of default  
 
CHAPTERVII 
MISCELLANEOUS 
28. Power of the Board to issue clarifications and guidelines 
29. Amendment to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) 
Regulations, 2018

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 27 
 
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  
EXTRAORDINARY 
PART III-SECTION 4 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
NOTIFICATION 
Mumbai, the …..…., 2021 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (VAULT MANAGERS) 
REGULATIONS, 2021 
S.O.__ (E).─ In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 30 read with clause 
(ba) of sub-section (2) of Section 11, sub-section (1A) of Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), Section 31 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 
1956 (42 of 1956) and Section 25 of the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996), the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regulations, namely:— 
CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
Short title and commencement 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Vault      
Managers) Regulations, 2021. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
Definitions 
2. (1) In these regulations unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
have the meanings assigned to them, and their cognate expressions shall be construed 
accordingly, - 
(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b) “Accredited refineries” means refineries empanelled by the Stock Exchanges;

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 27 
 
(c) “Assayer” means a person engaged in the process of assessing the purity or quality of 
gold; 
(d) “Beneficial Owner” means a person whose name is recorded as such with a 
depository/depository participant; 
(e) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of 
the Act; 
1[(f) “Change in control” in case of a body corporate –  
(A) if its shares are listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be construed with 
reference to the definition of control in terms of regulations framed under clause (h) 
of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act;  
(B) if its shares are not listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be construed with 
reference to the definition of control as provided in sub-section (27) of Section 2 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);] 
(g) “Depositor” means a person who owns the gold deposited with the vault for creation of 
Electronic Gold Receipt and its trading on recognized stock exchange; 
(h) “Electronic Gold Receipt” shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956; 
(i) “Gold standard” means the purity and standard of gold as specified by the recognized 
stock exchanges; 
(j)  “Nominated agencies” means agencies nominated by the Directorate General of 
Foreign Trade for import of Gold under the Foreign Trade (Development and 
Regulation) Act, 1992; 
                                                           
1 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Control in Intermediaries) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 17-1-2023. Prior to the substitution, clause (f) read as under: 
 
    “Change in control”, in relation to a Vault Manager being a body corporate, shall be construed with 
reference to: 
(i) the definition of control in terms of regulation 2(1)(e) of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 
and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 as amended from time to time if its shares are listed on any 
recognized stock exchange; 
(ii) in any other case, change in the controlling interest in the body corporate; 
 Explanation ─ For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means-  
(A) an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of at least fifty-one percent of voting rights in 
the body corporate; or  
(B) right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management directly or indirectly;”

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 27 
 
(k)  “Recognized vault” means the premises encompassing strong room(s) set up and 
managed by the Vault Manager and which conforms with all the requirements specified 
by the Board for the purpose of providing vaulting services;  
(l)  “Vault Manager” means any person who carries on or intends to carry on the business 
of providing vaulting services;  
(m)  “Vaulting service” in relation to gold means the storage and safekeeping of gold 
deposited with the Vault Manager, by the depositor, for the purpose of trading in 
Electronic Gold Receipt and providing services incidental thereto, and includes— 
(i) utilizing the services of assayers empanelled with the Stock Exchanges for testing 
as per the gold standard, wherever required; 
(ii) coordination with depositories for creation, transfer and extinguishment of 
Electronic Gold Receipt; and 
(iii) providing deposit, storage and withdrawal services to the beneficial owners. 
(2) The words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations, but defined in the 
Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, (42 of 1956), the Companies Act, 2013 
(18 of 2013), the Depositories Act, 1996, or any rules or regulations made thereunder, shall 
have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in those acts, rules or regulations, or 
any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be. 
CHAPTER II 
REGISTRATION OF VAULT MANAGERS 
Application for registration 
3. (1) Any person intending to carry on the business as a Vault Manager on or after the 
commencement of these regulations shall make an application to the Board for grant of a 
certificate of registration.  
(2) An application for grant of a certificate under sub-regulation (1) shall be made in Form A 
of the First Schedule and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee in the 
manner as specified in the Second Schedule. 
Eligibility criteria 
4. For the purpose of grant of certificate of registration, the applicant shall fulfil the following 
criteria, namely:

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 27 
 
(a) The applicant shall be a body corporate incorporated in India. 
(b) The applicant shall have the minimum net worth of fifty crores rupees. 
Explanation─ For the purposes of this regulation, the expression "net worth" shall have 
the same meaning as assigned to it under the Companies Act, 2013. 
(c) The applicant shall furnish refundable Financial Security Deposit as may be specified 
by the Board. 
(d) The applicant shall have the infrastructure as specified by the Board for safe deposit, 
storage and withdrawal of gold. 
(e) The applicant shall have adequate insurance to cover losses as may be specified by the 
Board.  
(f) The applicant shall have a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in respect of all the 
recognized vaults which shall specify the following: 
i. Procedures for deposit and withdrawal of gold; 
ii. Procedures for facilitating assaying of gold, wherever required; 
iii. Maintenance of details of persons appointed by the Vault Manager for creating the 
Electronic Gold Receipt; 
iv. Know Your Depositor requirements; 
v. Security policy for ensuring the safety of gold including from theft or burglary; 
vi. Procedure for dealing with losses including those caused due to theft, fire, burglary, 
fraud, negligence as well as other force majeure events; 
vii. Procedure for creation of Electronic Gold Receipt; 
viii. Procedure for maintenance of record; 
ix. Procedure for periodic reconciliation of physical gold with the records maintained by it 
and with the records of the Depository; 
x. Grievance redressal procedures; 
xi. Maintenance of adequate infrastructure, office space, technology and computer systems 
capability; and 
xii. Any other criteria as may be specified by the Board.

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 27 
 
Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation 
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish such other information or clarification 
regarding matters relevant to the activities of a Vault Manager for the purpose of processing 
of the application. 
(2) The applicant or its authorized representative shall, if so required, appear before the Board 
for personal representation, in connection with the grant of certificate. 
 
Consideration of application for grant of certificate of registration 
6. (1) While considering the grant of certificate of registration, the Board shall take into account 
all matters which it deems relevant to the activities of a Vault Manager and in particular, 
whether, - 
(a) the applicant fulfils the net worth requirement as provided in regulation 4;  
(b) the applicant has the necessary infrastructure, including adequate office space, vaults 
for safe deposit, storage and withdrawal of the gold and computer systems capability, 
required to effectively discharge the activities as the Vault Manager; 
(c) the applicant has the requisite approvals, if any, under any law for the time being in 
force, in connection with providing its services; 
(d) the applicant has adequate and competent persons employed who have the required 
experience, knowledge and ability for managing the business of the Vault Manager; 
(e) the applicant has prepared a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in accordance with 
regulation 4, setting out the systems and procedures to be followed by it for the effective 
and efficient discharge of its functions; 
(f) the applicant engages in any other business apart from providing vaulting services; 
(g) the applicant has been refused registration by the Board or whose certificate of 
registration has been cancelled by the Board; 
(h) the applicant or any of its employees is involved in any proceedings connected with the 
securities market or any other regulatory or enforcement agency; 
(i) the applicant is fulfilling the fit and proper criteria as specified by the Board in Schedule 
II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; 
and 
(j) the grant of the certificate of registration is in the interest of the investors.

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 27 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1) the Board shall not consider an 
application made under regulation 3 unless the applicant meets the requirements mentioned in 
regulation 4. 
Procedure for grant of the certificate of registration 
7. (1) After considering the application under regulation 3, with reference to the matters specified 
in regulation 4 and on being satisfied that all records and documents sought have been 
furnished and that the applicant is eligible for the grant of a certificate of registration, the Board 
shall intimate the same to the applicant. 
(2) Upon receipt of intimation from the Board under sub-regulation (1), the applicant shall pay 
to the Board a registration fee specified in the Second Schedule in the manner specified therein. 
(3) The Board shall grant the certificate of registration to the applicant in the format specified 
in Form B of the First Schedule upon receipt of the registration fee. 
Conditions of certificate of Registration 
8. The Registration shall be subject to the following conditions: - 
(a) the Vault Manager shall maintain the net-worth as specified in regulation 4 at all times 
during the validity of its registration; 
2[(b) the Vault Manager shall obtain prior approval of the Board in case of change in control 
in such manner as specified by the Board;] 
(c) the Vault Manager shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations in the 
discharge of its obligations and duties as a Vault Manager; 
(d) the Vault Manager shall pay the fees as required in these regulations; and 
(e)  the Vault Manager shall take adequate steps for redressal of the grievances of the 
investors in such manner and within such time as may be specified by the Board and 
inform the Board about the number, nature and other particulars of the complaints 
received, if any. 
                                                           
2 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Control in Intermediaries) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 17-1-2023. Prior to the substitution, clause (b) read as under: 
“the Vault Manager shall, during the process of seeking registration, immediately intimate the Board about any 
change in information submitted including information about change in control, if any;”

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 27 
 
Period of validity of certificate 
9. Every certificate of registration granted under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 7 shall be valid 
unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board. 
Procedure where registration is refused 
10. (1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion 
that a certificate should not be granted to the applicant, it may reject the application after giving 
the applicant a reasonable opportunity of making a written representation. 
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant 
within thirty days of such decision. 
 
Surrender of registration 
11. (1) A Vault Manager shall make an application to the Board in terms of Chapter V of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 to surrender the 
certificate of registration along with information that would satisfy the Board that: 
(a) the vaults have no pending obligations for physical delivery of gold; and 
(b) all disputes with respect to the gold deposited with it for the purpose of providing 
vaulting services as specified in these regulations have been satisfactorily resolved. 
(2) After surrender of registration, the financial security deposit furnished by the Vault 
Manager shall be refunded as per the procedure specified by the Board.  
CHAPTER III 
DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF VAULT MANAGERS 
General obligations 
12. (1) The Vault Manager shall be responsible for taking the deposit of the gold in the manner 
specified in Chapter IV of these regulations. 
(2) The gold deposited with the Vault Manager shall be in form and manner as specified by 
the stock exchange. 
(3) The Vault Manager shall store the gold only in recognized vaults. 
(4) The Vault Manager shall ensure the quality specifications of the gold at the time of deposit 
as per the gold standard. 
(5) The Vault Manager shall create Electronic Gold Receipt in accordance with regulation 18.

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 27 
 
(6) The Vault Manager shall not create an Electronic Gold Receipt without underlying physical 
gold. 
(7) The Vault Manager shall maintain records of all transactions or operations pertaining to 
the recognized vault(s). 
(8) The Vault Manager shall have appropriate safekeeping measures, as may be specified by 
the Board, to ensure that deposits, records and documents are protected at all times. 
(9) The Vault Manager shall have Data Recovery System in place to prevent loss or damage 
of electronic records. 
(10) The Vault Manager shall take necessary steps to maintain the quality and quantity of gold 
stored in the recognised vault(s). 
(11) The Vault Manager shall have adequate internal controls to prevent any manipulative 
activity. 
(12) The Vault Manager shall devise procedures for periodic reconciliation of physical gold 
with the corresponding record of Electronic Gold Receipts maintained by it and the 
depositories. 
(13) In case of any discrepancy between electronic records of the depository and physical gold 
with the Vault Manager, the Vault Manager shall ensure to resolve the same expeditiously, 
failing which the Vault Manager shall be liable for such discrepancy. 
(14) The Vault Manager shall deliver the gold, to the beneficial owner of Electronic Gold 
Receipt, after receiving specific instructions from the Depository. 
(15) The Vault Manager shall ensure that while withdrawing gold, the Beneficial Owner 
acknowledges the receipt of the gold in the form and manner as specified by the Vault Manager. 
(16) The Vault Manager shall not differentiate between any of the depositors for providing 
vaulting services. 
(17) The Vault Manager shall not create Electronic Gold Receipt in its own name with respect 
to the gold stored in its recognized vaults. 
(18) The Vault Manager shall not sell, remove, dispose or create any interest, including by way 
of pledge or hypothecation, in the gold deposited in the vault(s) for the creation of Electronic 
Gold Receipt, except in such manner as may be specified by the Board. 
(19) The Vault Manager shall have adequate mechanisms for the purposes of reviewing, 
monitoring and evaluating the vault’s systems, procedures and safeguards.

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 27 
 
(20) The Vault Manager shall ensure delivery of gold to the beneficial owner as per the gold 
standard. 
(21) The Vault Manager shall clearly disclose all charges related to its services on its website. 
(22) The Vault Manager shall submit periodic reports to the Board in such form and manner, 
including in electronic form, as may be specified by the Board in this behalf. 
Segregation of activities 
13. Where a Vault Manager is carrying on any activity besides those laid down in these regulations, 
then the activities relating to his business as Vault Manager shall be separate and segregated 
from all other activities including earmarking separate space for storage of gold for trading of 
Electronic Gold Receipt and storage of goods for its other businesses. 
Maintenance of records 
14. (1) The Vault Manager shall have systems for recording all transactions in electronic form 
pertaining to vaulting services. 
(2) The Vault Manager shall maintain the following records and documents, namely: 
(a) Documents to ensure that gold is traceable; 
(b) Details of storage, transfer and withdrawal of gold; 
(c) Purity, quantity and weight of deposited gold; 
(d) Creation and extinguishment of Electronic Gold Receipts; 
(e) Depositors under Know Your Depositor requirement; 
(f) Details of instructions received from and sent to beneficial owners; and 
(g) All reports submitted to the Board. 
(3) The Vault Manager shall intimate to the Board the place where the records and documents 
under sub-regulation (1) are maintained. 
(4) The Vault Manager shall preserve the records and documents maintained under sub-
regulation (2) for a minimum period of five years. 
Vault Manager to indemnify loss in certain cases 
15. If any loss is caused to the depositor or the beneficial owner by the Vault Manager in the course 
of providing vaulting Services, the Vault Manager shall indemnify such depositor or beneficial 
owner in the manner as maybe specified by the Board.

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 27 
 
Code of conduct 
16. The Vault Manager shall abide by the Code of Conduct as set out in the Third Schedule. 
3[Dispute Resolution 
16A. All claims, differences or disputes between a vault manager and a beneficial owner arising 
out of or in relation to the activities of the vault manager in the securities market shall be submitted 
to a dispute resolution mechanism that includes mediation and/or conciliation and/or arbitration, 
in accordance with the procedure specified by the Board.] 
4[Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
16B. (1) The Vault Manager shall redress investor grievances promptly but not later than twenty-
one calendar days from the date of receipt of the grievance and in such manner as may be specified 
by the Board. 
(2) The Board may also recognize a body corporate for handling and monitoring the process of 
grievance redressal within such time and in such manner as may be specified.] 
5[Investor Charter. 
16C. The Vault Manager shall ensure compliance with the Investor Charter specified by the Board 
from time to time.] 
CHAPTER IV 
ELECTRONIC GOLD RECEIPTS 
Deposit of gold into the vault(s) 
17. (1) Any person desirous of creating Electronic Gold Receipts shall place a request for the 
deposit of the gold with the Vault Manager registered with the Board. 
                                                           
3 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f. 04-07-2023. 
4 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023.  
5 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Charter) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 
10-02-2025.

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 27 
 
(2) The Vault Manager or any person authorized in this behalf, shall ensure compliance with 
the gold standard, weigh the gold bars and check necessary documentation at the time of 
deposit of gold. 
(3) The Vault Manager or any person authorized in this behalf shall ensure that the gold is 
deposited only through an accredited refinery or a nominated agency. 
(4) The Vault Manager or any person authorized in this behalf shall ensure that at the time of 
the deposit, it has furnished acknowledgement receipt to the depositor and has collected 
appropriate documentation to ensure that the gold is traceable.  
Creation of Electronic Gold Receipt 
18. (1) Every Vault Manager registered with the Board shall have common interface with the 
depository for creation and extinguishment of Electronic Gold Receipt. 
(2) The Vault Manager shall have authorized persons for creation of Electronic Gold Receipts.  
(3) Upon acceptance of the gold from the depositor, the Vault Manager shall create an 
Electronic Gold Receipt in the name of such depositor as beneficial owner by entering the 
following details in the common interface: 
(a) Account details of Beneficial Owner maintained with the Depository; 
(b) Details of Depository Participant; 
(c) Name of the Depository having account of Beneficial Owner; 
(d) Name and address of the beneficial owner; 
(e) PAN number of the Beneficial Owner; 
(f) Registration number of the Vault Manager and date up to which such registration is valid; 
(g) Name of the vault and its complete postal address; 
(h) Date of creation of Electronic Gold Receipt; 
(i) Rates of storage charges and other related charges, if any; 
(j) Description of the gold bars including particulars of quantity, weight and purity; 
(k) Bar numbers; 
(l) Purity Certificate; 
(m) Name of the refiner; and 
(n) Any other particulars as may be specified by the Board. 
(4) The Electronic Gold Receipt shall contain the following: 
(a) Electronic Gold Receipt number;

[Page 14]
Page 14 of 27 
 
(b) Name and address of the beneficial owner; 
(c) Registration number of the Vault Manager and date up to which such registration is valid; 
(d) Name of the vault and its complete postal address; 
(e) Date of creation of Electronic Gold Receipt; 
(f) Rates of storage charges and other related charges, if any; 
(g) Description of the gold bars including particulars of quantity, weight and purity;  
(h) Signature of the Vault Manager or his authorized agent; and 
(i) Any other particulars as may be specified by the Board. 
(5) Upon creation of Electronic Gold Receipt, the depository shall credit the demat account of 
the beneficial owner with such Electronic Gold Receipts. 
(6) The Vault Manager shall ensure that the information captured at the time of creation of 
Electronic Gold Receipt is accurate. 
Withdrawal of gold 
19. (1) A beneficial owner seeking to withdraw gold from the vault shall place a request with the 
depository. 
(2) The depository, after satisfying the payment of charges due to the Vault Manager, shall 
intimate its approval for withdrawal of gold to the concerned Vault Manager. 
(3) Upon receipt of communication from the depository under sub-regulation (2) above, the 
Vault Manager shall hand over the gold and extinguish the Electronic Gold Receipt(s), subject 
to the beneficial owner producing acknowledgement of receipt and such other documents as 
may be specified by the Vault Manager. 
(4) The Vault Manager shall intimate the extinguishment of the Electronic Gold Receipt(s) to 
the depository. 
(5) If a Vault Manager refuses or fails to hand over the gold, the burden of proof shall lie on 
the Vault Manager to establish the existence of a lawful excuse for its refusal or failure to allow 
such withdrawal. 
CHAPTER V 
INSPECTION AND AUDIT 
Right of Board to inspect

[Page 15]
Page 15 of 27 
 
20. The Board may appoint one or more persons as inspecting officer(s) to undertake inspection 
of the books of accounts, records, documents and deposits of gold of the Vault Manager for 
any purpose, including the following, namely: 
(a) to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the 
Vault Manager, in the manner specified in these regulations; 
(b) to examine the complaints, if any, received from investors or any other person on a 
matter having a bearing on the activities of the Vault Manager; 
(c) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act, these regulations and circulars and 
guidelines issued thereunder are being complied with by the Vault Manager; 
(d) to inspect into the affairs of the Vault Manager in the interest of the securities market or 
in the interest of investors. 
Notice before inspection  
21. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 20, the Board shall give not less than ten 
days’ notice to the Vault Manager. 
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that 
in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing 
direct that the inspection of the affairs of the Vault Manager be taken up without such notice. 
(3) During the course of an inspection, the Vault Manager against whom the inspection is being 
carried out shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided in regulation 22. 
Obligations of the Vault Managers on inspection 
22. (1) It shall be the duty of the Vault Manager whose affairs are being inspected and of every 
director, officer and employee thereof to produce to the inspecting officer, such books of 
accounts, records and other documents in its custody or control and furnish him with such 
statements and information relating to his activities as Vault Manager and within such 
reasonable period as the inspecting officer may require. 
(2) The Vault Manager shall allow the inspecting officer to have reasonable access to the 
premises occupied by it or by any other person on its behalf and also extend reasonable facility 
for examining the books, records, documents and computer data in the possession of the Vault 
Manager or such other person and also provide copies of documents or other materials which 
in the opinion of the inspecting officer are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.

[Page 16]
Page 16 of 27 
 
(3) During the course of inspection, the inspecting officer shall be entitled to examine or to 
record the statements of any director, officer or employee of the Vault Manager. 
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of the Vault Manager to provide 
the inspecting officer all assistance in connection with the inspection as may be reasonably 
required. 
 
Submission of report 
23. Upon completion of the inspection, the inspecting officer shall submit an inspection report to 
the Board: 
Provided that the inspecting officer may submit an interim report if directed to do so by the 
Board.  
Action on inspection  
24. The Board shall, after consideration of the inspection report, take such action as the Board may 
deem fit and appropriate including action under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. 
Appointment of auditor 
25. The Board shall have the power to appoint an auditor to inspect, into the books of account, 
records, documents or affairs of the Vault Manager, as the case may be: 
Provided that the auditors so appointed shall have the same powers as are vested upon the 
inspecting officer under regulation 20 and the Vault Manager or its directors, officers or 
employees shall be bound by the same obligations towards the auditor so appointed, as are 
mentioned in regulation 22. 
Expenses for audit 
26. The Board shall be entitled to seek from the Vault Manager, the expenses as may be incurred 
by it as fees paid to the auditor for inspecting the books of account, records and documents of 
the Vault Manager. 
CHAPTER VI 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 
Liability for action in case of default

[Page 17]
Page 17 of 27 
 
27. A Vault Manager who— 
(a) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, the rules framed thereunder or these 
regulations; 
(b) fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as Vault Manager as required by 
the Board; 
(c) furnishes false and misleading information to the Board; 
(d) does not submit reports as required by the Board; 
(e) does not co-operate in any enquiry or inspection conducted by the Board; 
(f) fails to update its systems and procedures as recommended by the Board; 
(g) fails to resolve the complaints of complainants or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the 
Board in this behalf; 
(h) makes a breach of the Code of Conduct specified in the Third Schedule; or 
(i) fails to pay the fees in accordance with these regulations; 
shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. 
CHAPTER VII 
MISCELLANEOUS 
Power of the Board to issue clarifications and guidelines 
28. In order to remove any difficulties in respect of the application or interpretation of these 
regulations, the Board may issue suitable clarifications or guidelines. 
Amendment to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) 
Regulations, 2018. 
29. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018 
shall be amended in the manner specified in the Fourth Schedule.

[Page 18]
Page 18 of 27 
 
FIRST SCHEDULE 
[See regulations 3 and 7] 
FORMS 
 
FORM A 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (VAULT MANAGERS) 
REGULATIONS, 2021 
Application for grant of certificate of registration as Vault Manager 
 
INSTRUCTIONS: 
1. This form is meant for use by the applicant for grant of certificate of registration as Vault 
Manager. 
2. The applicant should complete this form and submit it, along with all supporting documents 
to the Board at its head office at Mumbai. 
3. This application form should be filled in accordance with these regulations. 
4. The application will be considered by the Board provided it is complete in all respects. 
5. All answers must be typewritten. 
6. Information which needs to be supplied in more detail may be given on separate sheets 
which should be attached to the application form. 
7. The application should be signed and all signatures should be original. 
8. The application should be accompanied by an application fee as specified in the Second 
Schedule to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Vault Managers) Regulations, 
2021. 
 
GENERAL INFORMATION: 
1. Name of the applicant 
2. Address of registered office, along with the proof of address 
3. Name and Address of the Contact Person (representative of the applicant) 
4. Designation of the contact person

[Page 19]
Page 19 of 27 
 
5. E-mail address and contact number(s) of the contact person 
6. Certified copy of the board resolution specifying the approval for providing vaulting 
services and authorized person for the same. 
 
ORGANISATION STRUCTURE 
1. Type of entity 
2. Date and place of incorporation or establishment and date of commencement of business 
(enclose certificate of incorporation, memorandum and articles of association or statutory 
provisions, if any, under which incorporated or established and any other document 
specifying that the entity is authorized for providing vaulting services). 
3. Organization Chart 
4. Particulars of Key Managerial Personnel [Name; Address; Qualification; Designation; 
Date of Appointment; PAN no. (Certified PAN Copy); Telephone No.; Mobile; Email; 
work experience] 
5. Whether registered with any other authority and the copy of registration with that authority 
 
BUSINESS INFORMATION 
1. Details of the activities carried on by the applicant, in India. 
2. Details of associates of the applicant operating in India and activities carried on by them.  
3. Whether the applicant is involved in any other business related to the securities market. 
4. Details of grievance redressal and dispute resolution mechanism 
5. Details of outsourced activities 
6. Certified copy of Standard Operating Procedure  
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
1. Net Worth certificate not older than three months from the date of application  
2. Copy of audited financial statements for the last two financial years

[Page 20]
Page 20 of 27 
 
INFORMATION CONCERNING THE VAULT(s) 
1. Number of vault(s) in respect of which recognition is sought: 
2. Details of the vaults(s): 
i. Complete address of the vault(s) along with pin code, email address, contact person 
and contact number; 
ii. Year of construction of the vault(s); 
iii. Storage capacity of each vault; 
iv. Number of storage units; 
v. Dimensions of the storage units; 
vi. Whether the vault(s) is owned/hired/leased, along with documentary proof; 
vii. If hired / leased, please state duration of the hiring / lease; 
viii. Name and contact number of the jurisdictional Police Station and distance from the 
vault(s); 
ix. Name and contact number of the nearest fire station; 
x. Number of entry and exit points for the vault(s); 
xi. Details of the security agency along with contact number; 
xii. Details of fire safety arrangements (number and type of fire extinguishers, number of 
fire buckets, water arrangements, number of fire safety alarms and any other 
measures) (attach a list); 
xiii. Equipment for weighing gold (attach a list); 
xiv. Whether all the local laws have been complied with for carrying out the business of 
providing vaulting services; and 
xv. Number of staff members in the vault(s) 
 
SECURITY FEATURES 
1. Vault access control systems; 
2. Systems for tracking of gold deposited with the Vault Manager; and 
3. Risk control and operations manuals (enclose copies).

[Page 21]
Page 21 of 27 
 
OTHER INFORMATION 
1. Whether the applicant or any of its director, officer and employee is involved in any 
litigation connected with the securities market which has an adverse bearing on the 
business of the applicant; or has at any time been charged for any violation by other persons 
or convicted for any moral turpitude or at any time has been found guilty of any economic 
offence; and 
2. Whether there has been any instance of violation or non-adherence to the securities laws, 
code of ethics/conduct, code of business rules, for which the applicant, or its parent or 
holding company or affiliate may have been subject to civil or criminal liability or 
suspended from carrying out its operations or whether the registration has been revoked 
temporarily. 
 
DECLARATION STATEMENT  
I/We hereby agree and declare that the information supplied in the application, including the 
attachment sheets, is complete and true. 
I/We further agree that, I/we shall notify the Securities and Exchange Board of India immediately 
of any change in the information provided in the application. 
I/We further agree that I/we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 , and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Vault Managers) 
Regulations, 2021 and such other circulars, guidelines or instructions as may be issued by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 
 
For and on behalf of_______________ 
(Name of the applicant) 
 
Authorized signatory __________   Authorized signatory_________ 
(Name)       (Name) 
 
Signature_________     Signature_________ 
 
Date: 
Place:

[Page 22]
Page 22 of 27 
 
FORM B 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (VAULT MANAGERS) 
REGULATIONS, 2021 
 
Certificate of Registration as Vault Manager 
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with the regulations made thereunder for Vault 
Managers, the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to _________________ as 
a Vault Manager subject to the conditions provided in the Act and as the case may be in 
the regulations made thereunder from time to time. 
II. The Registration Number of the Vault Manager is IN/VM/________ 
III. This certificate of registration shall be valid till it is suspended, cancelled or surrendered. 
 
Date: 
Place: MUMBAI  
By order 
(Signature) 
For and on behalf of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India

[Page 23]
Page 23 of 27 
 
SECOND SCHEDULE 
[See regulations 3 and 7] 
FEES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (VAULT MANAGERS) 
REGULATIONS, 2021 
 
1. Every Vault Manager shall pay a non-refundable fee of one lakh rupees along with the 
application for grant of certificate of registration. 
2. Every Vault Manager shall pay a sum of ten lakh rupees as registration fee at the time of 
the grant of certificate by the Board. 
3. A Vault Manager who has been granted a certificate of registration shall pay fee of ten lakh 
rupees every three years, from the date of grant of certificate of registration within three 
months before the expiry of the block period for which fee has been paid in order to keep 
its registration in force. 
4. The fee referred to in clause (2) shall be paid by the Vault Manager within fifteen days 
from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board under regulation 7 by way of direct 
credit in the bank account through online payment using SEBI payment gateway. 
5. The fee referred to in clause (1) and (3) shall be paid by the Vault Manager by way of direct 
credit in the bank account through online payment using SEBI payment gateway.

[Page 24]
Page 24 of 27 
 
THIRD SCHEDULE 
[See regulation 16] 
CODE OF CONDUCT 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (VAULT MANAGERS) 
REGULATIONS, 2021 
 
1. While providing vaulting services, the Vault Manager shall: 
i. be prompt in providing vaulting services to the beneficial owners. 
ii. take reasonable care to organize and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems.  
iii. maintain adequate financial resources. 
iv. observe proper standards of market conduct in all their businesses relating to vaulting 
services.  
v. maintain the highest standards of integrity, fairness and professionalism in the 
discharge of its duties. 
vi. exercise due diligence in safe-keeping of the assets of the beneficial owners in its 
custody for which it is acting as a Vault Manager. 
vii. be continuously accountable for the movement of gold between its own authorized 
vaults and shall provide complete audit trail, whenever called for by the Board. 
viii. establish and maintain adequate infrastructural facility to be able to discharge vaulting 
services. 
ix. ensure that all operating procedures of the Vault Manager shall be well documented 
and backed by operation manuals. 
x. maintain confidentiality in respect of the information of the beneficial owner. 
xi. take necessary precautions to ensure that continuity in record keeping, where the 
records are kept electronically, is not lost or destroyed and that back up of entire records 
is available.

[Page 25]
Page 25 of 27 
 
xii. extend to other Vault Managers, depositories and clearing organizations all such co-
operation that is necessary for the conduct of business in the areas of inter-vault 
settlements, transfer and withdrawal of gold. 
xiii. ensure that an arm’s length relationship is maintained, both in terms of staff and 
systems, from its other businesses. 
xiv. be liable for loss of or any damage to the gold caused by its failure to exercise such 
care and diligence in regard to the gold as a careful and vigilant owner of the gold 
would exercise while in custody of the gold.

[Page 26]
Page 26 of 27 
 
FOURTH SCHEDULE 
[See regulation 29] 
 
Amendment to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) 
Regulations, 2018 
In the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018, 
in regulation 42, in sub-regulation (a), after the word “Receipts” and before the word “or”, the 
words and punctuation “, Electronic Gold Receipt” shall be inserted. 
 
 
 
(AJAY TYAGI) 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

[Page 27]
Page 27 of 27 
 
Footnote: 
1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Vault Managers) Regulations, 2021  was 
published in the Gazette of India on December 31, 2021 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2021/61. 
2. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Vault Managers) Regulations, 2021 was 
subsequently amended on, - 
i. January 17,2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Control in 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2023/115. 
ii. July 04, 2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Dispute 
Resolution Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, vide No. SEBI/LAD–
NRO/GN/2023/137. 
iii. August 18,2023 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 vide No. 
SEBI/LAD–NRO/GN/2023/146. 
iv. February 10,2025 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Charter) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 vide No. SEBI/LAD–NRO/GN/2025/228.
