[Page 1]
Page 1 of 13 
 
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA                          
(APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATOR AND PROCEDURE FOR 
REFUNDING TO THE INVESTORS) REGULATIONS, 2018 
 
 
No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/39. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
30 read with sub-section (1) of section 11 and section 28A of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), section 23JB of the Securities 
Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 and section 19-IB of the Depositories Act, 1996, the 
Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely,- 
 
CHAPTER I 
Preliminary 
Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Appointment of Administrator and Procedure for Refunding to the Investors) 
Regulations, 2018. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Official Gazette. 
 
Definitions. 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,- 
a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 [15 of 
1992];  
  
b) “Administrator” means a person registered with the Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Board of India as an Insolvency Resolution Professional and who 
has been engaged by the Recovery Officer for the purposes of these regulations. 
c) “advertisement” includes - 
(i) notices, brochures, pamphlets, circulars, show-cards, catalogues, 
hoardings, placards, posters, insertions in newspapers, pictures, films 
and documentaries; and

[Page 2]
Page 2 of 13 
 
(ii) any publicity through print medium, radio, television programmes or 
electronic media; 
d) “auditor” means a person qualified to audit the accounts of companies under 
the Companies Act, 2013; 
e) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under 
section 3 of the Act; 
f) "certificate" means the statement drawn up by the Recovery Officer 
under section 28A of the Act or section 23JB of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulations) Act, 1956 or section 19-IB of the Depositories Act, 1996 and shall 
not include a sale certificate;   
g) "defaulter" for the purposes of these regulations, means a person who has failed 
to comply with an order of the Board to refund monies to the investors or an 
order of the Board for disgorgement within the specified time period and who 
is mentioned as a defaulter in the certificate;  
h) “e-auction” means the public auction conducted through electronic mode; 
i) “e-auction agency” means a company providing an e-auction platform which 
is engaged by the Administrator for the purposes of auctioning and selling 
properties attached by the Recovery Officer; 
j) “investor” means the person, whether identified or not, in whose favour the 
refund of monies had been directed by the Board;  
k) "property" means and includes assets of any kind, whether movable or 
immovable, tangible or intangible, corporeal or incorporeal and includes 
securities, bank accounts, deposits, any right or interest or legal documents or 
instruments evidencing title to or interest in the property and where the property 
is capable of conversion into some other form, then the property in the converted 
form and also includes the proceeds from the property. 
m) “Recovery Officer ” means an officer of the Board, who is authorised by a 
general or special order in writing, to exercise the powers of a recovery officer 
under section 28A of the Act or  section 23JB of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulations) Act, 1956 or section 19-IB of the Depositories Act, 1996; 
n) “refund order ” means a direction of the Board, issued under the Act or the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996, to 
refund monies to the investors;

[Page 3]
Page 3 of 13 
 
o) “recovery proceedings” means the proceedings for recovery of dues initiated 
by a recovery officer under section 28A of the Act or section 23JB of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 or section 19-IB of the 
Depositories Act, 1996; 
p) “registered valuer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Companies 
(Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017 or any other statutory 
modification thereof; 
(2) Words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined  in  this  regulations  but  defined  
in the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996, 
the Second Schedule to the Income-tax Act, 1961 and the Income-tax (Certificate 
Proceeding), Rules, 1962,  shall  have  the meanings respectively assigned to them in 
that Act and Rules respectively.   
 
Applicability.  
3. (1) These regulations shall be applicable for all or any of the following: 
a. appointment of Administrator pursuant to failure to comply with disgorgement 
or refund orders passed by the Board; 
b. sale of properties attached by the Recovery Officer of the Board under the Act; 
c. collection of claim documents and verification of claims of investors for the 
purpose of effecting refunds; 
d. refund of monies to the investors pursuant to disgorgement or refund orders 
passed by the Board; 
e. recovery of disgorgement amounts directed by the Board; 
f. any act incidental or connected thereto. 
(2) Unless otherwise specifically ordered, these regulations shall not be applicable to 
cases where the Securities Appellate Tribunal or a Court has appointed an administrator 
or any other person for the purposes of recovery and/or repayment to investors.  
(3) The provisions of these regulations shall apply mutatis mutandis in respect of the 
proceedings under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories 
Act, 1996.  
 
CHAPTER II 
Part I - Administrator 
Appointment of an Administrator.

[Page 4]
Page 4 of 13 
 
4. For the purposes of these regulations, the Board shall, after attachment of the 
properties of the defaulter by the Recovery Officer, appoint an Administrator in the 
manner specified.  
 
Eligibility norms for appointment as an Administrator. 
5. (1) The Administrator shall be a person registered with the Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Board of India as an Insolvency Resolution Professional and empanelled 
by the Board from time to time.   
(2) No person shall be appointed as an Administrator where such an appointment may 
be objected to on the grounds that give rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence 
or impartiality of such a person: 
Provided that any question involving issues of conflict of interest in the appointment of 
an Administrator shall be decided by the Recovery Officer. 
(3) The Administrator shall provide an undertaking to the Board of absence of any 
conflict of interest with the defaulter, its directors, promoters, key managerial personnel 
and its group entities.  
(4)  The Administrator shall also forthwith disclose to the Board any conflict of interest 
which may come to his knowledge during his tenure: 
(5) For the purposes of these regulations, the Administrator shall be deemed to be a 
public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) 
and sections 22 and 23 of the Act shall accordingly apply to him. 
 
Terms of appointment. 
6. The terms and conditions of appointment including remuneration shall be specified 
by the Board, on a case to case basis, after taking into consideration the quantum of 
work, the number of investors and the quantum of money involved.  
 
Part II - Functions of the Administrator 
7. (1) An Administrator shall perform the following functions – 
(a) As may be directed by the Recovery Officer, obtain from the defaulter or any 
other person, any information or document including documents relating to 
ownership and possession of properties, details of amount raised from investors, 
claims of investors, amount claimed to have been refunded to investors;

[Page 5]
Page 5 of 13 
 
(b)  Make a record of the properties that have been attached by the Recovery Officer 
including the additional properties that have been entrusted by the Recovery 
Officer from time to time and those properties which are not part of the 
attachment order;  
(c) Make a record of the bank accounts and dematerialised accounts of the defaulter 
and value of the monies and securities held thereunder; 
(d) Arrange for a proclamation for the sale of the property and arrange affixation of 
the copy of such proclamation in accordance with the provisions of the Act; 
(e) Open an interest bearing bank account, under the control of the Recovery 
Officer, with a scheduled public sector bank for depositing the proceeds of the 
money recovered from the sale of the assets and for making repayment to the 
investors; 
(f) Sell the attached properties in accordance with these regulations or as may be 
directed  by the Recovery Officer; 
(g) Call for claims, in the manner specified in these regulations or as may be 
directed by the Recovery Officer, for the purposes of repayment to investors, 
pursuant to an order of the Board for refunds;  
(h) Verify the claims of investors and also that of the defaulter in respect of 
repayment of monies, either partly paid or wholly paid, claimed to have been 
made to investors on the basis of documentary evidence:  
Explanation – Verification may involve forensic auditing. 
(i) Carry out any other necessary incidental and supplementary act, with the prior 
approval of the Recovery Officer that may be required for the purpose of 
carrying out its obligations under these regulations. 
(2) While discharging the functions under these regulations, the Administrator -   
(a) may engage the services of a peer reviewed chartered accountant for 
verifying the claims of investors on the basis of documentary evidence and 
for submission of a certified report to the Administrator;  
(b) shall engage the services of a registered valuer to evaluate the properties of 
defaulter that are attached by the Recovery Officer and for submission of a 
certified valuation report in accordance with the guidelines issued by the 
Board;

[Page 6]
Page 6 of 13 
 
(c) may engage the services of a registrar and share transfer agent registered 
with the Board or such other agency as may be approved by the Recovery 
Officer, for managing the entire repayment process.  
Provided that the fees paid for such services shall be fixed by the Administrator taking 
into account the relevant factors including –  
(a) the number of investors and the claims that are made; 
(b) quantum of work involved;  
(c) the number of assets to be evaluated;  
(d) the geographical location of the property and its proximity with the valuer’s 
place of business; 
and such fees shall be within the overall remuneration fixed by the Board for the 
Administrator:  
Provided further that the intermediary or such other person engaged by the 
Administrator, shall not have any conflict of interest which would impede their 
independence or impartiality.  
(3) The Administrator shall submit a monthly report or a report as and when called for 
by the Recovery Officer on the progress of work entrusted including the monies realised 
pursuant to the sale of the properties and the repayments made to the investors. 
 
Part III – Sale of properties  
8. (1) The Administrator shall undertake the process of sale of properties after 
conducting an independent valuation of such properties by a registered valuer.  
(2) After considering the valuation report, the Recovery Officer may decide on the 
reserve price below which the property may not be sold.  
(3) The Administrator may undertake the sale of properties through e-auction process 
and for this purpose engage an e-auction agency and shall in consultation with the 
Recovery Officer repeat the auction process till the time such properties are disposed 
off.  
(4)  The process of disposing off the properties shall be under the supervision of the 
Recovery Officer.  
(5) On completion of the sale and receipt of the sale consideration, the Recovery Officer 
shall issue an order confirming such sale in accordance with the Act.  
(6) The amount realized in respect of sale of properties of the defaulter shall be 
deposited in a separate bank account with a scheduled public sector bank in terms of

[Page 7]
Page 7 of 13 
 
clause (e) of regulation 7 and such account shall be under the control of the Recovery 
Officer. 
 
Part IV - Refund of monies  
Refund to investors. 
9. (1) For the purposes of inviting claims from the investors, the Administrator shall -  
(a) issue advertisements in an English and a Hindi newspaper having nationwide 
circulation and if so directed by the Recovery Officer, issue such advertisement in 
vernacular newspaper(s) having circulation in the area(s) where the investors are 
concentrated; 
(b) direct the defaulter to issue advertisement in its website, if available.  
(2) The advertisement referred to sub-regulation (1) may also be hosted on the website 
of the Board. 
(3) The advertisements referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall contain instructions on the 
manner of making claims by investors and the documents and information that are to 
be submitted for verifying and processing their claim applications.  
(4) The invitation of claims from the investors shall be through electronic mode or be 
received in the office of the Administrator;  
Provided that the investors’ claims received, if any, by the Board and forwarded to the 
Administrator shall also be included in the relevant records maintained by the 
Administrator.    
(5) The Administrator or the chartered accountant engaged by the Administrator, shall 
consider the total eligible claims as against the monies available for distribution to 
investors in order to determine whether the whole amount or a proportionate amount 
may be repaid to the investors as may be directed by the Recovery Officer.  
(6)  Upon ascertaining the eligibility, the Administrator in consultation with the 
Recovery Officer, shall repay the money to the eligible investors only through pay 
orders, demand drafts and electronic transfer through NEFT or RTGS.   
(7)  The refund process shall be kept open for an appropriate period as may be decided 
in consultation with the Recovery Officer.  
(8)  The monies remaining in the interest bearing escrow bank account after satisfying 
all the permissible claims of investors and other charges, shall be retained therein for a 
period of three years in order to meet the claims that may be received from any unpaid 
investor.

[Page 8]
Page 8 of 13 
 
(9) Upon completion of the period specified under sub-regulation (8), the unpaid 
monies due to investors, if any, shall be transferred to the Investor Protection and 
Education Fund of the Board.   
(10) In case any claim is received from an unpaid investor after the refund process has 
been closed, the same may be made from the Investor Protection and Education Fund 
after necessary verification by the Administrator in consultation with the Recovery 
Officer: 
Provided that the  claim shall be made within a period of three years from the date of 
transfer of monies to the Investor Protection and Education Fund in terms of sub-
regulation (9). 
(11) The defaulter, and its officers who are in default as defined under section 2 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, as applicable, shall furnish an undertaking that they shall be 
liable for payment if any complaint is received in future by the Board from any investor. 
 
Costs incurred in administration and repayment process. 
10.(1)The entire costs incurred in relation to the sale of properties, verification of 
investors’ claims, remuneration of Administrator including the fees paid, if any, to the 
chartered accountant or valuer or such other person engaged by the Administrator and 
registrar and share transfer agent and all other expenses incurred in connection with the 
recovery and/or the repayment process shall be borne by the defaulter(s), failing which, 
the monies recovered by the Board shall be appropriated in priority to the other 
liabilities.    
(2) The cost and expenses referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be reasonable and 
directly related to and necessary for the act and purposes referred to in these regulations. 
(3) Where the Administrator is appointed on the request of a person against whom an 
order for disgorgement or refund had been issued by the Board, the remuneration of the 
Administrator and the other costs incurred in respect of recovery and/or refund to the 
investors shall be borne by such person.   
 
 
Priority in distribution of sale proceeds. 
11.  The proceeds from the sale of properties of the defaulter shall be distributed in the 
following order of priority, namely, -

[Page 9]
Page 9 of 13 
 
i. the costs of administration incurred by the Board, if any, and the fees 
and charges payable to the Administrator and other persons appointed 
by the administrator in performing its functions under these regulations;  
ii. disgorgement and/or monies payable to investors: 
Provided the Board may direct the Administrator to initiate the process 
of refund to the investors with the monies realized at the relevant time. 
For this purpose, the Administrator may call for claims in tranches 
iii. any other penalty or fees due from the defaulter to the Board under the 
provisions of the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or 
the Depositories Act, 1996.  
 
Return of monies exceeding the liability. 
12. In case the proceeds realised by way of sale of properties of the defaulter is in excess 
of the monies due from him under the certificate and the applicable interest and other 
charges, the excess money shall be paid to the defaulter after completion of three years 
from the date of completion of the refund process.   
 
Filing of the repayment report. 
13. Upon completion of the repayments to all investors or recovery of the disgorgement 
amount from the defaulter, the Administrator shall file a detailed repayment/recovery 
report to the Recovery Officer or Board, as the case may be, within the period as may 
be specified.  
 
Part V – Disgorgement of amounts 
14. The provisions of these regulations in relation to recovery of disgorgement amount 
ordered by the Board shall be applied in so far as it is applicable and the disgorgement 
amount so recovered shall be credited to the Investor Protection and Education Fund of 
the Board. 
Provided the disgorgement amount shall be paid to investors only in cases where the 
eligible investors are identified in the order passed by the Board and the remaining 
amount, if any, after such payment, shall be credited to the account of Investor 
Protection and Education Fund of the Board.  
 
Part VI - General obligations and responsibilities

[Page 10]
Page 10 of 13 
 
Obligations and Responsibilities 
15. An Administrator - 
a) shall maintain high standards of integrity, promptitude and fairness in the 
conduct of all his business.  
b) shall act with due skill, care and diligence in the conduct of all his business. 
c) shall not misrepresent any facts or situations and shall refrain from being 
involved in any action that would bring disrepute to the profession.  
d) shall act with objectivity during the course of his professional dealings by 
ensuring that all decisions are made without any bias, conflict of interest, 
coercion, or undue influence of any party, whether directly or indirectly 
connected to sale of properties, verification of claims and refund of monies.   
e) shall not acquire, directly or indirectly, any of the assets of the defaulter.  
f) shall maintain complete independence in all professional relationships and 
conduct the verification and refund process, as the case may be, independent of 
external influences.   
g) shall not conceal any material information or knowingly make a misleading 
statement to the Recovery Officer or the Board.   
h) shall not act with mala fide or be negligent while performing the functions and 
duties under the regulations.  
i) shall provide all information and records as may be required by the Recovery 
Officer within the time specified by him.  
j) shall ensure that confidentiality of the information relating to the sale of 
properties, verification and refund process, is maintained at all times: 
Provided that the Administrator may disclose any information after obtaining 
written authorization of the Recovery Officer or the Board.  
k) shall disclose all costs towards the verification and refund process and 
endeavour to ensure that such costs are not unreasonable.  
l) shall comply with the terms and conditions of its appointment. 
 
 
CHAPTER III 
Action in case of default 
By an Administrator.

[Page 11]
Page 11 of 13 
 
16. (1) The Recovery Officer may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, recommend 
for replacement of the Administrator, in case the Administrator has - 
a) failed to comply with the terms and conditions of appointment;  
b) engaged valuers or chartered accountants or such other persons who are 
ineligible to act so; 
c) failed to comply with any of the obligations and responsibilities specified under 
these regulations;  
d) acted against the instructions of the Recovery Officer or the Board; or 
e) acted in such manner that is prejudicial to the interest of the investors. 
(2) Without prejudice to the action under sub-regulation (1), the Recovery Officer may 
recommend for initiation of appropriate action under the Act.  
(3) On receipt of such recommendation or suo moto, the Board may take apprpriate 
action against the Administrator or such intermediary or such other person enagaged by 
the Administrator, under the Act including the following:  
(a) remove such Administrator from the Panel; 
(b) forward the matter to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India for appropriate 
action against the Administrator who is an Insolvency Resolution Professional; and 
(c) issue suitable  directions restraining such person from engaging in activities in the 
securities market in his professional capacity.   
(4) The Board shall replace an Administrator in the event his registration with the 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India is cancelled or suspended.  
 
Chapter IV 
Miscellaneous 
 
Power of the Board to issue clarifications. 
17. In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  
these  regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines, as deemed 
necessary. 
 
 
Forms. 
18. The Board or the Recovery Officer may specify the forms in respect of an order, 
notice, warrant, or certificate to be issued under these regulations.

[Page 12]
Page 12 of 13 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
AJAY TYAGI 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

[Page 13]
Page 13 of 13 
 
Footnote:  
1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Appointment of Administrator and 
Procedure for Refunding to the Investors) Regulations, 2018 was published in the 
Gazette of India on October 11, 2018 vide notification No. SEBI/LAD-
NRO/GN/2018/39.
